# Ground Up 047 - Simple Choices w/ Courtney Carver
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p0aWGIgNVcQ
http://www.groundupshow.com

Courtney Carver is an author & blogger at Be More With Less. I first met Courtney back in 2014 while filming my first feature-length documentary Minimalism. In the film she talks about her minimalist fashion challenge called Project 333 in which she challenges her readers to wear only 33 items of clothing for 3 months.

Today we take the conversation one step further and talk about the ways which simplicity can have profound impacts on your life from the inside out. We also discuss the business side of things, turning your blog into a business & the myth of job security.

Courtney's new book "Soulful Simplicity":  https://goo.gl/x8EdQj

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://www.goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://www.instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://www.twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching.
**Keywords:** minimalism, simple living, be more with less, courtney carver, project 333, capsule wardrobe, minimalist clothing, clothes, minimalist fashion, fashion, conversation, talk, minimalist, how to, learn, education, simple choices, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, 
**Date:** 2018-02-21

## Transcript
 I think for any change to stick, you're a heart test to believe you, it has to believe that you're making these changes for more than just superficial reasons, or because you think it's what other people expect you to do. I'm not saying you can't benefit from simply decluttering your countertops, but for it to be a permanent, long-lasting change, especially when we're talking about things like not bringing more things into the house, stop shopping, that kind of thing. Those are big changes for people. That has to be inside out stuff. That's Courtney Carver. You might recognize her from a little documentary that was released in 2016 called Minimalism. That's right. That was my documentary. I made it. It was amazing to be able to catch up with her. You might also recognize her from her books, from her blog posts. She's got a great blog called Be More With Less, or maybe you've even participated in one of her minimalist challenges. Apart from her blog, she's probably most known for Project 333 or Project 333. I'm not exactly sure which one it is. I've heard people say it both ways. Probably should have asked her when she was here. But anyway, it's this challenge. She challenges you to where 33 items for three months. That includes jewelry. That includes shoes. That includes everything else that you would otherwise put on your body. It is challenging. It's swept across the world. There's been so many people that have gotten value out of it. It's helped people think about their lives in a different way and the things that they consume primarily what's in their closet. Yeah, like I said, it was great to catch up with Courtney. This is the first time that I got to link up with her since the film. We talk about the influence of advertising. We talk about turning your blog into a business and the myth of job security. Today, we also answer a couple of the first ever audience questions. You've been sending your questions in over the past couple months and it's been amazing to hear from you and hear about the specific things that you're going through. We got to two of those today. If you have a question for the podcast, if you have question for me or one of my guests, send them in to hello at matdevil.com. I would love it to be a video. That's my preference because this podcast is pretty heavy on the video side of things. So if you can do that, it'd be great if you're camera shy. Totally cool. I'll take audio. And if you're free to get specific about the things you're going through. The problems that you have say if you are a hip-hop producer and you have a song or a beat that you want to send us that you want to get feedback on. I may not be the expert there, but I will find somebody a producer. Next time I have an artist on, we'll talk about it. So I think that would help us. To even deeper here and try to get to the bottom of what it means to make meaningful content these days. So that's again, hello at matdevil.com and I look forward to hearing from you. Now without further ado, God, I said I would, I told myself I would stop starting the podcast by saying without further ado, it just seems so corny. Like who says without further ado, I guess I do. Without further ado, this is Courtney Carver. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matdevil and I'm a filmmaker best known for the net flex documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. Let's start the podcast. Let's do it. Courtney, welcome to the ground up show. Thanks, Mat. How's it going? Very good. It's so great to see you again. I know the last time I saw you was the interview for minimalism I believe we haven't seen each other since then. Yeah, in Salt Lake City. Right. So what's been going on? What's the latest in your life over the past was that two years ago? Were that two and a half years ago when we shot it? It was a while ago for sure. A lot has changed. The most recent thing is my new book that's out. I'm here in L.A. on Book Tour and I'm so glad that we got to see each other while I was here. I know I'm excited. It's funny because I spent so much time working on these interviews just like going back and forth. I probably saw your interview about a hundred times just kind of picking it apart and trying to find the right places to fit it into the film. But yeah, it's definitely great to get back in touch. How long have you been working on this book for? You've done a couple of books before, but is this your first major publisher type deal? Yeah, so I have done some self-publishing. This is my first print book and my first traditionally published book. And what's like the difference there? Like the self-published is obviously very common. A lot of people do it. I think it's probably harder to get a book deal to get somebody to what are they that they give you like an advance or they say they give you the distribution and all that that goes along with it. Yeah, I mean there are a lot of differences. The e-books are fantastic and the self-publishing because you can just do it. You can write it and put it out there and be done with it on your time. And then when you're working with an agent and a publisher, you're working on other people's time. So it takes a couple of years versus a couple of months. I think that's probably the biggest difference. But then you have some additional support that you might not have when you're going it on your own. Right, so do they give you an editor and other people to help out with the actual creation of the book? So not so much with the creation like I wrote the book after doing a proposal and kind of getting some feedback. But then they come in and they help you make it better. So they make your writing better. I think that's probably one of those challenging aspects of being creative and giving up control and especially when you're partnering with somebody else and I know from minimalism it was if it was just my venture just me by myself the film would have looked a lot different. Probably wouldn't have been as good but you have to be able to take in other people's feedback and but okay actually you're right. Do you get like attached to your the writing and the things that you make or do you tend to or you give up that I guess final creative say a little bit easier? I don't get that attached. I mean I might be attached to some of the stories within the book but thinking about the project as a whole I was really excited to have that feedback because I had been writing it by myself for a year. So I was kind of in this bubble and I was really looking forward to some outside input and I can only think of there was one chapter in the book that they wanted to cut and there was one story within that chapter that I really loved so I just suggested that we put it somewhere else and they were up for that so worked out very well. Compromise yes. I feel like that's that's what those kind of things where you have to be able to get creative and you have to think of other solutions to problems and a lot of times the one piece of advice that that I've heard before is if everybody like if you keep hearing people I don't really like that scene I don't really like that scene I don't think that should be in there but then one person says that's my favorite scene like that that was like really like changed my perspective then you obviously that's not cutting dry black and white but I think it's pretty good you should keep that in there because a lot of times it's hard to tell from the outside and when you're a creator what's good and what's not what's going to work what's going to connect with people and what won't. Right what resonates and it's been interesting now that the book is out and of course I can't change anything to hear from other people what's really grabbing them is different than what grabbed me in some cases so I try not to like I'm very grateful for the feedback but I try not to take it in because at this point it's I mean the book is out it's finished I once asked somebody for advice this was on minimalism and I said you know because I reached out to a bunch of people and said hey we'd love to give your feedback on this cut what do you think you know any and all advice would be helpful and then it took them two months to get back and by that time I had already finished the film we had sent it to distribution like everything was ready to go and then it was a long even they put a lot of time and energy into it but I'm like I'm so sorry but I didn't tell them I actually lied I hope they're not listening but I was like oh thank you so much for your feedback I really appreciate it this is really great but then I didn't read it because I was like oh man like at this point it doesn't matter at this point if I even read it it's just gonna and they're right it's just gonna hurt I'm like all right I just need to kind of push this to the side so I see that like it's I think that for me is a little bit easier is just to kind of once you're done with it the feedback is the feedback it's like just not sure you can do about it right and it has very little to do with me and so much more to do with the lens of whomever is giving the feedback sure so you've written a lot about minimalism and simplicity what makes this book a little bit different why did you feel pushed to write this book what makes this book different then a lot of the other things I've written about simplicity is that it's more about the inside changes versus the outside changes so well yes I talk a little bit about decluttering it's so much more than that it's about the changes that I made from the inside out the changes that I made when my heart was really in the game and when I finally started making these changes for reasons other than to have a a nice looking kitchen or to do like a regular spring cleaning or to get organized which is seems why I turned to simplicity before but it would never last but this time around I was doing it for way more important reasons you know to get my health back to get my time back to get my life back yeah I think a lot of people they get into minimalism and simple living because of the surface stuff at first because at least I know growing up my parents had a lot of stuff we still have a shed filled with my grandparents things that we haven't gotten rid of a lot of the snacks a lot of things it you know often wasn't cluttered it in seem cluttered like the house was always very clean but there was always a lot of stuff and then I think you just kind of grow up in that status quo but then when you have to maintain it yourself you kind of realize oh wow this is a lot of work like a lot of cleaning a lot of time spent finding the thing that you want to buy to fill up that wall I just did a my minimalist department tour because every time I have people over on the for the podcast they're like wow like oh yeah I guess you are a minimalist huh but like for me I'm like I look around my place and like everything's thoughtful I don't have a lot of things on the wall I've got one frame photo of the rock but that's it we don't have a lot of stuff framed and put around on the wall so I was like oh I want to show people kind of how I live and my life but if I had to like fill up every wall with something and it's just so much work it's so much time and energy so I think that's why people get into it but then of course there's the benefits afterwards. I think for any change to stick your heart test to believe you it has to believe that you're making these changes for more than just superficial reasons or because you think it's what other people expect you to do. I'm not saying you can't benefit from simply decluttering your countertops but for it to be a permanent long lasting change especially when we're talking about things like not bringing more things into the house stop shopping that kind of thing that's those are big changes for people. I mean shopping for me used to be the the way that I would relieve stress avoid pain really numb out in many cases and so to make that kind of change where I don't want to go shopping anymore that has to be inside out stuff. Right it's because what do you do with your time too? Now that you're not spending all this time focusing on the stuff in your life that's I think often for a lot of people why they avoid it avoid simplifying and avoid really asking tough questions because once you're there by yourself with your own thoughts it can be a little bit overwhelming and a little bit tough to understand which direction to head and when you're not distracting yourself with shopping and buying things what are you doing with your life? Yeah exactly and when you are caught up in that like your stuff needs stuff so you're busy taking care of your stuff by buying more stuff for it or for your walls or whatever it is like there really is always something else to buy if you're on that track and I agree with you I think that when we pull back and we have to stop and listen and perhaps make changes that's really scary and sometimes it's easier to keep doing the other things which is why we need this bigger why or motivational point. So it's called the ground up show I do want to talk a little bit about your story we obviously covered it a bit in the film and people who are familiar with your work under no your story but I'm curious about some of your your work and career and that transition out of it into becoming essentially a full-time creator you know and and a self-dependent entrepreneur so you worked in advertising I'm curious first what are your thoughts are on advertising and having been in the industry on this podcast I don't do advertising I think if like if I had to like down the road if it's like oh I like there's no other way for me to monetize this or make money I'm not totally against it if it's in alignment with my values but I want to try everything I can to not do advertisements how do you feel about it have you ever advertised for your business and what's your overall view of it yeah I mean there's so many ways to look at advertising so I will run ads from time to time on events that I'm doing or things like that to get the word out the type of advertising that I used to sell was for luxury brand items things that you bring into your home ironically enough I spent many years yeah helping people sell their stuff and before I ever left probably two years before I left I started really changing my own life and becoming just really unimpressed with the message that they were sending and the message that I was helping them send and it made it hard for me to do my job but it also made me realize how excited I was for the changes that I was making in my life so I know I'm not answering the question but I'm not I guess I'm not opposed to advertising I'm just I would really be careful about it from the other side because they're sending messages sometimes that aren't just about hey here's this event but trying to show you why you need it and why you're not enough without it and I think that type of advertising can be really dangerous it's a really tough question to answer especially now because advertising it also falls on to promoted posts which through Facebook and Instagram like if you want to be able to reach your full audience you have to pay for that is that advertising in a way it is in a way you're just reaching an audience that already wants to hear from you yeah but then so was everything that we do it's just not paid advertising so really I mean any message that we're putting out there in a sense is advertising but it's not maybe promoting a specific product or telling people if you don't have this then you're not complete and full so I think we have to be mindful about the message that we're sending as creators as people who are putting things out there I mean I kind of wish Facebook would just put a monthly fee out there to let us reach our full audiences with the stuff that we're doing and then you don't have to be like think about how your paid posts are going to be different than your regular stuff you're right the promotion and the advertising it's not straightforward anymore it's really challenging to navigate it's easier to just be like oh I'm not going to advertise I'm not going to do I'm not going to go into any of it although like in a lot of ways it's it's very challenging it's a really tough thing to do if you're trying to sell out an event or if you're trying to make the launch of your book successful if you're trying to reach your full audience so I think you're right I think your approach is probably the best that I've heard is just be mindful be conscious and aware of the message that you're putting out there and it's hard because I feel like only you can really decide if your message is meaningful if it's worth sharing if it's worth paying for and people where people's attention yeah I think we all have these little lines that we're trying to follow and not cross and figure out what's right and wrong and and sometimes we're going to mess up when it comes to that but we just have to be thoughtful about it I know one thing that I am really careful about is mentioning brands of clothes for instance so people will often ask me if I they see a picture on Instagram where do you get that shirt or where did this come from or where do you get that bag and I won't say and not to be unhelpful but because I know that's how I got in trouble in the first place was that name dropping and oh I got this here you can find this perfect dress here or this perfect whatever here we're all in the in the realm of social media constantly advertising it by talking about what we own what we have what makes our life great not only as creators but as consumers we have to be thoughtful about that yeah I think that's probably more influential than advertising in general like if Toyota reaches out to me through an advertisement I know it's coming from Toyota like I can make certain assumptions about what they want me to do with that advertisement but if I see my friend with like in front of their brand new Toyota car I should get Toyota response or this podcast but then then I'll probably feel a little bit more of an urge right the keeping up with the Jones is like oh Brian Scott that new car like man my car is like a clunker I really need to get it especially if he's by the beach and he's with his cute girlfriend then it's this whole lifestyle thing yeah and the way that people you know prepare and take photos and I am at fault of doing this right but like we take so much time to make these photos the perfect and to line up the food on the plate to make sure it looks really great so we're doing it to ourselves and actually that's like we can get back to the advertising and kind of that transition but that whole thing is is hard with the media consumption and that's something that I've been challenged myself with lately because I'm like I find myself always just checking my phone how do you view like the digital clutter and how do you organize your like from not seeing all these impulses and things that get us to want to buy and consume and distract us from our actual life yeah I mean now that my mind set is so different I'm not pulled to buy when I see things like that but I am still distracted with the constant flow of information and so I have to set boundaries and not look at all I'm not very good with moderation in any form so for me none sometimes is better than any especially when it comes to the digital stuff and the phone stuff and I find that when I'm how doing stuff like this like where we're talking in person or where I'm doing a book tour and meeting people in person it's really challenging for me to then put a video out on Instagram or Facebook or do a Facebook live like I can't keep being there here and there it's almost like I have to live in one place and then the other stuff kind of lags behind for a while and I'm fine with that so it takes some like up front and intention so to be like oh okay well first of all I can like schedule these blog posts or these videos to go out or I can say all right on Mondays I'll do this or at this time is when I'm going to put in this work and work on my social media stuff and then that way you can be reass assured that that stuff is going to take care of itself the time will be made for it and you don't have to impossibly check all the time right or it's I'm just not going to do it at all and everything will be fine no one's going to miss me if I'm Instagram for a few days and when the time comes to like mindlessly scroll through whatever it is I am aware that that's happening I say this here's what this is what I'm doing right now and this is not work because it used to be that I would go to put a post up on Instagram for work and then an hour and a half later I'd be like am I working anymore what's happening so I try to keep those separate like not post something and then scroll for an hour it's like a rabbit hole you you I mean I've been doing it too because I have started to really been thoughtful more and more as I've become a creator and started to put stuff out on a weekly basis where it's becoming my job and then I'm like oh like I would have posted something on Instagram and then you see that little bubble where it's like notification or you get like a direct message and I'm like oh let me just check that out real quick and then an hour goes by and you're like what the hell just happened I had a plan for my day and now it's over but it's it's very it's very hard but like I think you're right because sometimes I can find every excuse to be guilty because of the things that I'm doing and like to schedule and all right you know what I'm going to take this hour and I'm going to binge on YouTube and Instagram and I'm just going to kind of go through all this stuff maybe set a timer and then I'll know when to stop and then I can get back to work or get back to whatever it is I was supposed to be doing so what are you so what are you that transition from advertising and selling these luxury products and then realizing it wasn't fulfilling there was some overlap there when you started blogging you started to be more with less how did that transition transition start to take hold in your life yeah just to give you a quick timeline so 2006 I got sick diagnosed with MS decided to change my life didn't know how I was going to do it but just started making changes 2010 by 2010 actually probably 2009 I had simplified quite a bit I knew I wanted to leave my job but I didn't know how I would do it I was still pretty deep in debt and had to be bringing money in and wasn't really sure I knew I couldn't start a blog and leave my job but I also knew that I could start a blog and build a business from it so I started the blog in May 2010 and left my job 16 months later so it was about two years of planning and I had some boundaries or parameters of what had to happen before I were to give my notice had to be debt free our family had to be debt free I wanted to have a certain amount of money saved so that I didn't have to work with clients that I didn't enjoy or take any jobs out of desperation so that if I did zero business in two months we'd be okay and luckily I didn't need that buffer but I had it I think that's kind of like the Murphy's Law thing like if you have it everything's fine and that really worked out well for us so I quit and I think September 2011 and have never looked back it can be very stressful to try to create your own business and to especially when you don't know if like those checks are going to come in you don't know if that next client or that next job is going to pay off or the book is going to do well or the documentary so there's a lot of unknowns but if you can kind of fill in some of those spaces I think it's going to first of all make your life a lot less stressful but then it's also going to lead to a higher chance of you actually succeeding and pushing forward when times are tough yeah and I mean definitely be comfortable with uncertainty because you just don't know but at the same time there was so much talk when I was in my job about job security that job wasn't any more secure than my own business I mean granted I had no idea what my business was going to look like but I how do I know what my job would have turned out to be either and I could have gotten fired three weeks later or who knows yeah I just think we put a lot of a lot of weight on that job security when it doesn't really exist I think the best security is probably cultivating skills that are valuable so if you're a filmmaker learning how to create and make films all by yourself or if you're a writer really honing in on that craft and when you do that when when you become indispensable it's easier like to transition to another job if you lose your job or to start something on your own but so I think that there's probably some things that you can do in that even if you're in a corporate world to really develop those skills that are going to make it so you will never be without a job or will never be without work coming in you saw it as a blog but you also saw it as a business as well how to that take shape in terms of like how you were deciding to make money through this online venture. Well in the beginning when I first started the blog I kind of made a like three to five year like kind of wishlist on paper what could I do to generate income what might that look like what might the growth look like and again I really had no idea of what it would actually be but I just thought I can write and self-publish e-books I can create courses I can work one on one with clients perhaps even some of the clients I was working with in the advertising world but helping them with kind of navigate the online world and I was pretty accurate in what I mapped out except I was about I don't know three years off so what I thought would take three years took six years hmm which I guess it's fair to say that most things take twice as long as you think they will. Yeah that I just had a photographer on the podcast and we were talking about this and she's got a three year rule where she's like if I start anything I just have to know going into it that it's probably going to take three years before it gets to the place where it's even sustainable where it's something that you can keep doing so that's a that's a difficult thing in a difficult proposition for a lot of people because I don't think most people can save up three years worth of expenses out at the very beginning but that's not to say that you can't make it sustainable or at least start to make money and start to build upon something but like you said you had about a year or two years before you actually left where you were actually that was the beginnings. Yeah I was doing both things and for the blog I was just writing all the time so I was posting three times a week in the beginning and not monetizing aside from maybe some Amazon affiliate links or something like that so five cents a month or something wonderful yeah and that was okay because because I was engaged in something that I really enjoyed it made that job that I really couldn't stand more bearable because I knew it was helping me get to where I needed to go. Right so you had an idea of the direction that you wanted to head so you could kind of grind it out for a little bit how difficult was that time three blog posts a week as a lot when you have a full time job that's even more challenging like how did you find the time for it? It was a lot it was that plus guest posting I mean this was in 2010 so guest posting was the way to go when I was probably guest posting once a week on top of those three posts looking back at those three posts they there wasn't a whole lot of meat to them so I would say they didn't take a whole lot of time but overall I had a really flexible day job so I could write a little bit in the morning a little bit in the afternoon and some in the evening but again it was work that I really enjoyed and still do look I really like writing blog posts. What's your consistency these days? Typically once a week. Yeah is that I guess why do you set that intention of posting consistently what's important about it? A few things I mean the important thing for me is that the more I write the more I write so if I and I write every single day but I post once a week I don't mind how many times other people post but I know for me and for my community more than that is almost too much so if I were to send out a blog post every day I know I would get hate mail and be it just wouldn't I know that there wouldn't be the same type of connection by posting once a week I feel like I'm saying I value your time I'm putting everything that I could split up into you know seven emails into this one post for the week. Yeah yeah I sometimes worry that I'm bothering people and I think that like through Instagram or anything I'm doing I'm just like maybe I'm overthinking things but I'm like man I feel like I posted too many videos this week or maybe I should post this much but I think there's probably an element of feeling it out and really seeing like everybody's audience is a little bit different and as you build an audience you can probably set an expectation the email thing is probably that's like a significant factor there where you like you probably don't want to be emailing somebody seven times a day but you essentially send an email out with every email with every blog post that you do yes um yeah I'm getting better at the email stuff I just started I'm like learning all this right now and it's great to do this podcast because I can just pick people's brains about what's worked for them and what hasn't but the email thing is like my been the slowest for me to pick up because it requires writing it requires a lot of thoughtfulness and intention and if you're going to reach out to somebody through email and go into their inbox there is I think a high likelihood that they will unsubscribe if they don't like it that they will leave have you noticed that like if you if you post it or maybe you send something that's not adding value to their lives then you see kind of a backlash from it well to back up for a second for the first five years that I blogged I used to feed burner through Google which I don't know if you're familiar with that but it's a terrible platform for emailing people you have no idea if anyone gets it and the design is just bad it's unsupported but it's free and so that really spoke to me in the beginning I mean it's always this balance of time versus money I think when you're starting something new and it by year five or year six I switched over to convert kit and started investing in that service and being able to send things that looked a lot better but every email almost every email I send is simply a blog post so there's not a lot of extra it's exactly what's on the blog delivered to an inbox if that's how you want to receive it and with feed burner I could never see how many people unsubscribe and now I do because it's just right there it's a lot like a lot of people it's every time you get people that will leave you yeah but I've gotten to this place where I'm glad that happens because a it's expensive to yeah yeah right because I get every thousand or every five hundred subscribers you get you to pay a little bit more money right and I'm happy to invest in that but if you don't want it get out yeah please and do something or or sign up for something that better speaks to you because otherwise I know I'm just going to the the junk mail or to the trash or they're just looking at it and dismissing it but when they unsubscribe they're taking action and saying this is not for me and that's I'm almost happy about it I love that when I first when I started doing YouTube and stuff and like really cared about my follower count subscribers and I'm just checking it every day because it's exciting to build something and that's one of those metrics that really helps you understand if like your audience is growing or not and then I would get upset when I would see like I could see a down tick I would upload a video and I'm like aren't I'm supposed to get more followers when I upload a video and people are leaving but then you're right I started to look at that as a good thing I'm like this is great like obviously that person didn't like what I was making they weren't connected with my message but that's cool like you I'd much rather have 10 followers that were die hard than a hundred that aren't even watching what I'm doing and I think that's important do you writing so much have you run out of ideas yet and you're writing like a lot about simplicity a lot about minimalism do you ever where you're like oh I'm gonna like I'm just gonna run out of ideas next week and I'm not gonna know what to write about or what to put out there I never worry about that because like I said the more I write the more I write the more that I'm capturing my ideas the more that follow if I don't write for a bit or in the beginning when I first went from three posts down to two down to one a week it was harder to come up with ideas actually but now that I'm kind of back in that flow once a week plus daily journaling I mean it hasn't happened yet so that's not something that I worry about yeah when did things start to pick up like what was there a moment when you're like I can actually do this like this is actually working was it before you left or was it after I knew when I left when I gave my notice that I could make something of what I had but I hadn't yet so I wasn't generating a a livable income by any means when I left my full-time job but I saw you know I had sold one ebook I think and saw the power of that and I started to see the power of the connection through the blog and the growth that was happening and I just I knew it was possible I didn't still I still don't I mean I don't know what I'll be doing in five years to be honest and I like that I would like that about it because that gives me an opportunity to be curious and to to pivot a little bit as as things change as they always do where I don't I know that my work is not gonna look exactly like it does today but I would say probably five years in it things really started to take off right which sounds like a long time but it went by in a flash yeah and you have to get you had to get started at some point you had to get moving I think a lot of times we just want the results right away and I think if you told people it's gonna take five years for your business to like really start working for you and doing well I'm not sure how many people would be able to stick it out so maybe it's like being naive a little bit it might be a good thing the fact that we're like yeah this is gonna happen in two years and then it takes five years or it takes I talked to a Brian Bowen Smith a photographer he I think it took him I want to say 20 years it sounds long that sounds like a long time but I think it was actually probably like seven years before we got signed through an agent seven to ten years where he was just grinding it out making having jobs here and there but not doing anything and now he's like the top celebrity photographer he works with pretty much like everybody you could think of and but it you had to first of all love what you were doing but then just keep going and be naive enough to think that it's gonna work because it probably will yeah I'm good at that about like I said I thought it would take three years to write a book for instance have a book traditionally published in a took six or seven but on the flip side I also really paid attention to how I was being paid other than money so I was being paid in time and freedom and creativity and health and better sleep all of these things that I didn't get in the benefits package at my day job so that made a huge difference when you're feeling that doubt creep in as it as it always does sometimes days you have good days and then I'm sure you have days where you're like oh man like am I doing the right thing I'm making right decisions where do you go when you're feeling that doubt what do you do doubts apart doubt fear all of those negative things are part of creativity for me all the time like all right something the other day I had a couple of new ideas for books and before I could even really think about them I sent them to my agent and I said I'm just sending you these so I don't convince myself that it's a piece of shit by the time you get back from this trip because that's what we do we get a great idea or an idea and then we talk ourselves out of it like oh no way no one's gonna like this or this is dumb or whatever so for me it is a getting keep the ball rolling and be trusting myself and I do that through a morning routine a daily dedicated practice of taking care of myself and that helps me be more creative it helps me trust my ideas and it also helps me not be so attached to them so if they are terrible ideas I can let them go and get on with it like there has to be bad ideas for there to be good ideas yeah that's a great point why are the specifics of your morning routine what is it look like what time do you wake up well it changes by the season and if I'm traveling and things like that but typically it starts at about 5 o'clock 30 in the morning and it's a combination not always in the same order but some combination of journaling and yoga walking sitting quietly with my hands on my heart and just connecting to myself and remembering who I am because I had forgotten for a really long time so that daily practice even though that heart practice is maybe only five minutes it's enough to reconnect and to move through the day with more intention and to be more me if that makes sense throughout the day it makes it easier to make decisions it makes me more aware of when to say yes and when to say no without a lot of back and forth or guilt or any of that and it definitely helps me be more creative so the first thing you do when you wake up you don't check email or Instagram it was ever a point when that was the case sure sure and sometimes when I'm traveling that will happen to like I'll wake up because if I'm sleeping in a hotel and I wake up at a weird time because of time zone differences I'll reach over and look at my phone as a clock and I'm like well while I'm here I think that's good though it's a no and to let people know because I think sometimes we put too much pressure on ourselves to be as perfect people and the truth is that life's a little complicated and you travel you might not be working out or when you might not be eating well and you know your morning routine might fall off a little bit but there is kind of this ideal that you set an intention okay I want to wake up at five thirty I'm gonna spend time to myself I want to be able to be centered and ready to work and I think those are things that everybody should try for yeah I mean my whole thing is always consistency over intensity so I know that if the next two days in LA I my morning routine is off or I sleep late or I don't eat as well as I normally would because of the consistency that I have it'll be okay it's it's a it's a it's a little blip it's the small things and that's the thing with motivation motivational speakers even or watching and inspiring YouTube video is that you get this dopamine rush and you're like I'm gonna do everything I'm gonna change my life I'm gonna you know build this work every team I'm gonna do it all today and then what happens you lose steam and you don't keep up with those things and those intentions that you had so yeah I think you're right it's it's consistency every day like you said you write every single day if you're doing that every day versus I'm gonna write a book in a week you're gonna be more likely to output better stuff and more stuff over a long period of time yeah and that goes for anything I mean my daughter made a resolution for herself that she wanted to read more this year and she made a commitment that she would read every single day even if it was only one line or one word and now we're into February and she's astounded by how well that's working for her and she said there are some nights where I just read one line and I because I don't even want to read but because I keep coming back to it more often than not I go beyond that one line when you're creating content one of the biggest things and the things that I'm trying to inspire people to do is be more thoughtful and intentional about the content they make so to make meaningful content to really think through what they're putting out there because everybody's obsessed with content it's like you know you have to make consistent content you should be making content every day just keep making content but I think people don't aren't spending enough time about what they're actually saying they're just trying to be heard so what kind of things do you do and you know there's obviously a strong attraction to a lot of people to create these clickbait headlines clickbait posts how do you find yourself letting your message be heard sharing your message with others but also doing it in a tactful way and doing it with a way that isn't clickbaity or delicious yeah I think we're all starting to see the desperation and the clickbait stuff it's really just sad to me it really is and even when it feels tempting like to to craft your post or your headline or whatever in a way that you think Google might approve of and it just doesn't connect with readers the same way as if you're genuinely trying to solve a problem or ease pain that's my my motive when I start a blog post I think I just want to ease a little pain today I don't know what that's going to look like it might be something as simple as the clean countertop like we were talking about earlier but the more of my story that I share and the more of my pain my mess that I share and how I got out of it the the deeper the connections are with the the people that whose pain I'm trying to ease and in a lot of times it's my own pain what advice do you give would you give people that are just starting out that are that are because that's the most challenging part and I think that's probably the most tempting place to want to just yell your message out there and just get it across in any way possible you know spam send emails out to people have all caps headlines and you know these clickbait posts what advice would you give to those people that are just at the beginning and it's it's it is a grind in the beginning it is tough to be heard and to actually get your message out there what would you say I'd stay focused on the problem solving on the pain easing versus you know asking people to share your stuff doing things just to get attention because people see through that and they're not going to sign up for your newsletter they're not going to want to stay in touch because they see that you're trying to connect with people besides them so really think about who you're writing for it especially if we're talking about a blog format because those are the people that eventually will reach and maybe not in the beginning I mean I think that's the best time to really just focus on the writing because no one's seeing it at all in the beginning so you can really experiment and have fun with it and eventually they will see it so why not have your best work out there right away knowing that it's going to get better over time but just focus one post at a time people have often asked me you know what should I wait till I have 20 posts before I start a blog or what should my first post be I was like it doesn't matter it doesn't matter no one's going to see it for a while so just start and then the best advice I've ever gotten probably when I first started was don't stop just don't stop so if you want to grow a community and have a blog that is kind of the core of your business just keep going hmm a year ago today I started this podcast actually congrats thank you I didn't think I was gonna make I think I did I think I do I when I started it it it's hard to because like I've started a lot of blogs before I've started a lot of things that I didn't finish so I set the precedent that this wasn't going to keep going but in the beginning I definitely this is different this one is different I'm really going to make sure I keep consistently making these podcasts it has evolved so much over just that one year the first one was like I didn't save up 10 or 20 posts I just like I was like I had a story that I wanted to tell about my first experience as a filmmaker or one of my early experiences where I just I totally screwed up and forgot to hit record during a reality show it's like a funny story that my friends enjoyed and they love to make fun of me about so I was like all right I'll just throw this up there it was like 8 to 10 minutes and I really liked it I got like a little bit of a response but it means just family and friends those are the only people that were listening and they would listen to me anyway but then I just kept doing it and eventually I got into a rhythm of creating and putting out one post per week so I put out 45 episodes over the course of a year which it's a lot of work there's a lot of work that goes into it but I couldn't if I didn't just get started and just start putting that stuff out there it wouldn't be as good as I think it is now because I learned so much through each one and it's like I've had episodes that are bad I've had ones where I just didn't feel like sharp and I felt like oh man I really like screw that one up and then like literally just pacing around apartment thinking about that interview that I just screwed up for an hour but then you get better and you get a little bit more confidence and then eventually I don't know if it ever gets totally easy like there's still a lot of hard work that goes into each episode but I think you can enjoy it a little bit more and you can kind of let go of your expectations and then you can just keep creating for sure and especially once you realize that no one's gonna die over a typo you can write it and let it go write it and let it go and if there is a typo go change it later you'll be fine yeah the one thing that's tough I've had a couple of experiences where I it's not a typo it's a I screwed up something in the intro where I had these guys from I don't know if you see the Netflix documentary living on one dollar they lived in oh my god am I gonna screw it up again I haven't seen it it's gotta be Guatemala it's definitely Guatemala and I I said Brazil in the intro and I was like you idiot Matt like you just made a fool yourself and then I felt bad though because I knew that they would have wanted me to make that change to make sure that they're audience and my audience knew where they were because they had ended up they lived on a dollar a day for a month and they ended up bringing I think over a million dollars into this community raising awareness through this film which was amazing so it's like it matters in the being truthful and accurate I think is important so I had to re-record the intro on video and then edit it in the podcast export it took six hours re-upload it yeah the video stuff takes a long long time but I was like but you learn from those and then I was like all right now I need to just make sure that I like fact check myself and do this and that but you're right at the end of the day so what you made a mistake you can correct it if you can't correct it nobody's probably watching in the beginning anyway so I'm paying attention right at the edges so it doesn't matter I think that was the biggest thing is when I started I thought I was nervous about what people were going to say and then what I came to learn was that people didn't say anything because they like in the beginning nobody really cares what you're making and they they're not listening to which I think is the it's like a big weight to be lifted to know that like oh it doesn't matter I can say anything that I want right now and I can I can learn and just start creating do you want to get to I have a couple segments on the show this is a new one that I'm doing this is audience questions I'm starting to take audience questions on the show so I've got a couple here this is the first one that I've ever done so this is a question from Lauren if you guys want to ask your questions what are we doing we you can send a video but like it doesn't matter if you're using the actual video you can just like face it down but it's just essentially to get that audio send your video from your phone to hello at matdevila.com ask your question keep it under two minutes and we'll get you on the show so this is a question here from Lauren hi Matt I'm Lauren calling from Rowling North Carolina thanks for taking your questions so a big problem that I have always had in my life is procrastination I will get excited about something I'll want to start working on it and then nothing I will find everything else that I can do instead of this one thing so there are things that I want to do like right more blog posts start running maybe start my YouTube channel back up again and I'll even record some videos but then not follow up on editing and posting them and setting a schedule and putting my lighting up and I'm just finding other excuses besides this one thing so I'm stuck really because of procrastination what can I do to get rid of that thank you love the podcast all right that's the first question what do you think I'm gonna make you go first procrastination I think procrastination is often tied to fear and if you see that connection or look see if that is the connection once you identify it I think it's easier to move through so for instance I want to do more YouTube videos why what's holding our back from doing those YouTube videos like what is she concerned about or afraid of or are they're really just more interesting things that she's doing and then setting just saying tomorrow we start and it's at the top of the list like make it the most important thing of the day gets done first I don't think there's any real secret to moving through procrastination besides taking that first step yeah I think everybody deals with it in some way or another we find things that are easier or that distract us I start cleaning when everyone's supposed to really do something I'm like just clean up a little bit and then three hours later I didn't do what I was supposed to do the one thing I think you hit on was make sure it is what you really want to be doing what you actually love and maybe YouTube videos for you like it may actually be something that's gonna help your business it may be the right thing to do for your business maybe there's other things that you can be doing right now that you really love that could actually help equally so I would say focus on that first like if there's gonna be things down the road that you should do for your business that you probably need to do for your business say you're accounting you know you have to put together your tax documents and receipts for the year not fun that's probably something you're gonna procrastinate for but you have to set the intention to actually do it like you said you have to schedule it out you just have to do it I think the biggest thing for me is like I read the war of art by Stephen Pressfield that's a book I would definitely recommend he labels it the resistance and it comes up in so many different shapes and different forms and it's to kind of call it by that name oh this is just the resistance this is just me doing everything I can to distract myself from the work that needs to be done might be rereading that book every year it might be making sure that you're staying on course of your priorities I personally have a two-do list I like have a checklist and if it's on the two-do list or if it's an email in my inbox like I have to get that thing done that's something I have to do and I don't I don't know if there's that's practical but if I like I don't do anything like a checklist that that keeps yeah and any sort of deadline really helps me and I'm not gonna do whatever the thing is until it's absolutely do so whether that's my weekly blog post I'm gonna put one up tomorrow morning I'm probably not gonna well yeah I'm not gonna start writing it until tomorrow morning I work at the right up until the deadline for things that's just the nature of how I create so I recommend making deadlines for yourself and then if you are not accountable to yourself bring someone else in where you're accountable to them so say here's my list of deadlines I'm gonna let you know when I've accomplished them great deadlines that's a good one I think that's like a lot of people don't like deadlines because most usually other people are setting them but when you set your own deadlines it can be freeing and I can also push you and encourage you to move forward I have a question here from Nate somewhere here this is a video question the first video question on the podcast hello im at my name is Nate I'm 23 years old I'm currently in Ohio I just graduated college last May and my question for you is or your guest what is advice for someone who went to school for business like I just got a general business degree and now I want to pursue a creative career specifically video or photography and I'm just struggling to find like the confidence and the direction because I didn't go to school for something creative I'm at school for business so like what is any advice you would give someone in this situation and then to add more context I now have a corporate job and management that pays the bills but honestly I hate and I would much rather be creating something anything just creating content to make a living but I still feel there's a void between what I the skills I have the chance I have from business school that I can apply to my management job and where I want to be in the creative field and being able to use you know what is now a hobby this is I feel that there's a void you know so any advice anywhere in the advice would help love the show of the podcast thanks so I think this like it gets to the heart of what a lot of people are struggling with and I think what a lot of people are aspiring to do is they they have like a nine to five job that's not necessarily fulfilling I know a lot of people that have jobs that they do love so it's not for them but for the people that are like I like I really want to start my own thing I want to create something that is the probably one of the most challenging things to do and it's something that you did yourself so what did you learn through that transition and what advice would you give Nate? Well first of all Nate you've got something that a lot of creative don't which is a business background and they are feeling that way about business the same way you're feeling about the creative part so you will be able to use that that side of it in whatever creative work you pursue that's definitely something I learned even though I didn't like my job there were so many parts of my career that became useful in this new world of creativity and now you're just kind of bridging that gap so create make things take classes figure out what you're really interested in and what you enjoy and then go for it I mean that you've got all the he's got the the foundation to start his own business he knows the nuts and bolts of that so now he's just trying to become better at creating and only way you do that is by creating yeah and specifically I would say I'm looking at I've he sent me some of his work this is a whoops I should turn that music off so this is his work this is like amazing this is a wedding video that he did like he's he's actually very talented he's starting from a really good place because you can already tell from his work that somebody would pay for this video and he's doing weddings which is really good I started out doing weddings bar mitzvah's local TV commercials I did a lot of videos and stuff that wasn't necessarily glamorous but that I enjoyed and it helped me to learn my skills as a filmmaker so I think he's got a great place to start here he can start actually making money the the challenging thing is going to be making the transition so it's like are you going to be able to you know leave your job in a month in six months probably not it's probably going to take a little bit longer than that if you can live at home with your parents it helps that helped me I live at home with my parents for two years but I actually brought up my original wedding video to this is the the first wedding video that I ever did Courtney it's really bad there's like an ant growing on the flower this is it's like really corny that's my mom right there that's my ant but like this is where I started out he's leaps and bounds he's years ahead of me at this point in terms of his quality and what he's putting out there so I feel like at this point it's working on that business side using those business expertise that he learned in school and actually putting that into practice and helping himself and helping his own business get down yeah don't be afraid to charge for your work because it looks good exactly I think it's hard I think like setting prices is is a challenging thing from the beginning I started out setting well like I did actually like I don't think I I might have she made it might have paid me for that video like 400 bucks or something and my early weddings I don't think I ever did any for free but I did them for like $400 to $600 which is like when you average it out the amount of time spent shooting an editing you probably get like six to $8 an hour but much better than working at a coffee shop I get to edit a video I get to learn I get to film so I don't know I guess I would probably say like set your prices pretty low in the beginning to get a portfolio and a real together and you got four to five weddings together now you can start charging a thousand to two thousand dollars plus per wedding and you can start to kind of build it out from there do you know I was just gonna say who knows if that's even what it leads to I mean you're not doing wedding videos anymore maybe that's not even what he wants to do but it's a great start and then who knows what unfolds from there so I say yeah go in even while you're working at your current job yeah the weddings for me was like I did a lot of them I probably did like 50 weddings I filmed 50 weddings over the years when I first started out and I got to a point where I shot three weddings in one weekend back and forth between New Jersey and Philly and I had to do like five six hours of driving between them the last one was like a Russian buffet it was a really weird there was like these dancers and this sequenced outfits and singing on stage and that was and the restaurant owners were like serving me shots of vodka which like that was like the only good part of the wedding but I realized in that moment I just I was like oh I'm probably doing this too much I'm probably pushing myself to a point where I'm not actually enjoying this anymore and I want to transition and you'll know when that is you're like your body will tell you yourself that oh I'm not fulfilling this anymore but like if you're if if he's not fulfilled in his current job I think he'll probably build a happier making wedding videos and building up his own thing and like you said you can transition out of that and if you stay doing the same thing you're in entire life like and you can enjoy I think good for you but for me I'm like every couple years I feel like I need to challenge myself and do something a little different I need to experiment and push myself a little bit further otherwise it gets a little bit stale yeah I hope everyone on the video just saw your Russian dance move oh yeah that was that was my Russian dance move I'm going to have to turn that into a gift that I can that I can send out that has to happen yeah no that's pretty good I should start doing like minimalist dance classes just maybe I won't do that at all let's do quick questions and then we can wrap up this podcast and now you got an event tonight to get to I'm looking forward to that myself so I got a couple questions here just to wrap things up four or five and then that'll be the end of the podcast what book has had the biggest impact on your life probably oh boy not the I can't say the biggest I'm not sure but one book that has had a big impact on my life is Julia Cameron's the artist way I have not heard of that book oh yeah that's a bad one I'm sleeping what uh that's actually where I started journaling I mean she recommends writing three pages a day and not just if you're a writer but any creative work that you're going into just writing three pages a day not that you're going to publish it or even share it I mean I know I never want anyone to read my three pages a day it's just getting the gunk out off your brain onto paper so that you're free to have the good ideas flowing what drives you forward and why do you keep making stuff for starters I love it I love what I do it it really fuels me and also the connection that I'm making with other people who are really making huge changes in their lives I mean that that keeps me going as well but I really like making things what one skill have you leveraged in a way that others haven't that's a hard question I think I don't know if this is a skill or not but by working in sales for so long working on commission you know not having a regular paycheck I became very comfortable with that uncertainty of money flowing and I feel like it's become a skill like it's something that I've had to work on that I'm not if if money doesn't come in one week I'm not nervous about it I'm not worried I know it's going to come in the next week or the week after that so I feel like I can be very comfortable with the uncertainty of of money and it's just like a kind of common go thing especially with my own business right one thing to read watch or listen to before what one thing I always screw this up what one thing should our audience read watch or listen to before they go to bed what's so important that they should get started tonight would it be weird if I said my book absolutely not you wouldn't be the first thing I mean I hope gosh I'm trying to think of other things that are just that must read watch no I don't I don't think there is one thing that people have to do before they go to bed tonight I think if they have they do something I put their hands on their heart for a minute and come back to themselves I think that's going to be more important than taking in more information that's great I love that you just do the go switch a route on the question last question what's the best way for people to find you online where should we send them best ways probably my website be more with less.com or Instagram at be more with less okay great and I'm gonna wrap up this podcast episode with something new I'm gonna I'm gonna have a reading from my favorite book the rock says the most electrifying man in sports entertainment Courtney I don't know if you know but my guest or my audience certainly does I've got a big goal of trying to get the rock on the podcast I don't know if you know the rock heard this yeah now I do and I've heard a little bit of this your vision for this oh you have yes okay yeah so it's been it's been a work in progress I would say he hasn't returned my phone calls I'm reaching out to him on a pretty consistent basis but like he's busy so I'm sure I'm gonna hear back from him eventually so I wanted to read a just an excerpt here to to close his off and give us something to think about for the coming day I can't tell you 20 specific things I learned from all my classes I took at UM I don't say that to be little the quality of education there it's just the truth but I do remember what I learned about sacrifice and having a commitment to being the absolute best I remember getting up at six in the morning to lift weights and then watch film I remember summer workouts running for 45 minutes in the heat and humidity at 9 am and then going into the weight room and vomiting from exhaustion there were so many things that molded my work ethic we had a saying at Miami and it carries over to what I'm doing now all it takes is all you've got I'll never forget that it's so simple but so true Courtney thanks for coming on the show thanks Matt thanks for listening to the podcast appreciate you guys as always let's see how do we wrap this one up you guys stick around for this I do like I started a wild though this was probably like maybe 7 to 10 episodes back just started having these outflows where I rip because I feel like most podcasts they just do like here's the generic outro and then it's just like go to blah blah blah blah I don't know I find that to be just repetitive and I always just shut the podcast off at that point not sure if this is any better just me sipping on coffee here so again obviously mentioned it a a couple times already in the podcast but if you have questions feel free to send them in that's hello at matdivella.com would love to hear from you and if you like this episode if you're like this podcast in general would love to keep hearing from you on iTunes if you could leave a review for the ground up show super helpful also I've been making a lot of short videos I'm not sure if any of you guys have seen those who are loyal podcast listeners I'm making these short videos almost essays there's you know I'm doing a bunch of different types of content but that's over at the YouTube channel so it may be something from hey what is my apartment look like to what is my minimalist wardrobe look like to what does it mean to be content to be satisfied and happy with what we have so a lot of different topics I'm diving into and it's just a different format to be able to do that so I don't know it's like hard because like just search oh just search matdivella YouTube and then it'll pop up subscribe on there and then you'll see some of that content thanks for listening see you guys next week
