# Becoming a Filmmaker
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pd9mMqL7s1I
http://www.groundupshow.com

Filmmakers Andrew Morgan (The True Cost) & Matt D'Avella (Minimalism) discuss getting into filmmaking & finding stories worth telling.

This is an excerpt from The Ground Up Show episode 044. Watch the full podcast at http://www.mattdavella.com/044

Watch Andrew's latest film The True Cost on Netflix.
**Keywords:** filmmaking, getting started, learn, education, filmmaker, director, documentary, interview, discussion, conversation, podcast, the ground up show, ground up, Matt D'Avella, Andrew Morgan, The True Cost, matt davella, 
**Date:** 2018-01-31

## Transcript
 When I was in sixth grade, I remember making some decision to be a filmmaker, you know, like whatever that meant at the time, but I remember being very clear about that. And I think everything in my life, as complicated as it has been, that's never been the hard part, you know. Like I was very locked in. I remember watching ET, like as a kid, and just thinking like this is something, I just remember thinking it was powerful, like really, really powerful, and I just wanted to do it. I mean, it was like really that cut and dry, so I was bad student, I was bad at, just about everything, like academically speaking, so I remember really, really on realizing I could go to a film school and not have to get like a certain, you know, level on SAT or get into some, and that was like, oh my god, tour head over. So I finished high school, and I came out to Los Angeles, I remember, to go to the LA Film School and study cinematography, and that was really, I mean, that was just like when all the lights turned on. It was the first time I was ever in an environment where I just felt like myself, you know, like I did really well, it came really naturally, I just was all the hands on parts of the cameras and the lights and the gear, and I just absolutely loved it, and I had one of those years that just changed my life because I was studying, and we were making stuff, and then I also got really connected to some of the professors, so we would go on set for some of their movies, and I travel, and it was, yeah, it was just like totally intoxicating. Yeah, I wonder if there's like, obviously a lot of people talk about how the system is kind of outdated the education system, and I wonder if there's, it's just such a hard thing to try to come in and fix, but it's like, a lot of the times we're putting kids through these classes in general requirements that they don't need to be taking, I didn't go to film school, but my last two classes in college, I had to take them to graduate, so I had to say an extra summer, it cost $10,000, and the classes were outerboat and weightlifting. And that's what I needed to take in order to become a professional filmmaker. What, like, how did you have to pass the weightlifting class, was it a, was it a threshold of weightlifting? I had to bench press, no, no, I, so it's funny, it wasn't like it was actually just a physical educational requirement, but I think it's just funny that I decided to take weightlifting, but it just kind of shows it's like, why, why, why did I need to do that? Why don't you just say an extra two, when you, when it kind of plays out like that, you, you kind of wonder, all right, there might be a better way to go about this. Although actually, I just read an article in the Atlantic about that too, where it's like, but at the same time, a lot of times at 18, you're not ready. Yeah, you're not, you're, you're very young, and so to start your career, first of all, people probably aren't going to trust you or believe you that you're so smart that you decided not to go to college, because like, oh, yeah, okay, you decided not to go to college, because you're, you're already past that, but yeah, well, if you tell me you excelled at weightlifting. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. Well, that was, that was the story for me though, really, it's like, I was really young, because I, I came out to Los Angeles when I was 18, and I went to film school and at that time, the film program was only a year, it was like a 12 month immersive program. And so I got out, and I was 19, and I remember that, like, I didn't understand some of what was happening at the time, but a lot of it for me was like, I had, I had gotten, at a very early age, I had gotten really good at a lot of the technical parts of the craft, and what had to catch up for me was just like some life. Like, I didn't, like, I knew how to tell stories, but I didn't have stories to tell. Like, I had this, and, and I think it took me a number of years to get from that place to actually saying, you know, I have, I have something that I want to say, or I have something that I've experienced or observed or noticed, because at that time, you're right, you're just kind of like, I know how to use a camera. Like, yeah, which I think is huge, is I, and like, to really love it, and to really be, like you said, just absorb in the craft, and really enjoy editing, because I think it has to come in the very beginning, you have to enjoy it. And obviously, down the road, it turns into work in a lot of ways, and it is just really hard work to put, make a film and put it together. It's not all rainbows and sunshine, but you have to really, in the beginning, like you were saying, push through. Like, how, how did you, how did you know when you were ready to make a story? How did you know when you were ready to make your first documentary? Well, it was interesting for me. I, so I started out, like I said, I had gone to school for some photography, so I started out in the, in the cinematography world, so I was, you know, everything from pulling focus and gaffing to working as a DP, and really helping other people tell their stories, which looking back with so, I'm, I'm so glad I did that path. You know, like, it's interesting because I've, I've, I've turned my attention now to directing, but I'm really glad I kind of came up through that more tactical place, partly because of what I'm saying, you know, in regards to my age. Like, I was able to watch a lot of other people work. I was able to watch a lot of other people make decisions, which helped a lot. And I, you know, I directed some shorts, I did some stuff, and then it really wasn't till something really personal changed in my own life, and that was that I actually, my dad died in a, in a really unusual, terrible accident that I was, I was there to witness. We were on a bike ride, I hit by a car. And I, in the, in the, in the wake of that loss and kind of in the throws of grief, which I felt totally unprepared for and totally ill equipped to navigate, I began to work on my first documentary, which was called After the End, which is really where I, I went to spend time with different people around the country who had experienced loss in some way, and had somehow come through it as, as a living vital human being on the other side, because I, I really did want to understand, you know, what does it take to go from this place that I was in at that moment, which was really tough, and so I spent time with people who had lost children and spouses, and, you know, and the experience was, I don't know, it just kind of happened, like it wasn't like I'm going to go make a documentary, it just was like, I felt this need, like this visceral need to go do that, and in the process of doing it, it was unbelievably healing to me, it might have saved my life honestly, and then to get on the other side of it and to put that film out and to have that film help other people, to have other people, you know, come up and say, I was like in the dark, and I didn't know that there was going to be another, you know, version of tomorrow, that was, that was just life changing to me, I mean it was like all of a sudden, all of a sudden it was like my own curiosity and going on these, you know, that could not only could it help me, but it could help someone else, that was just like a paradigm, that just that changed everything for me.
