# Ground Up 038 - Live Simply w/ Becca Shern
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pExR7zzWABU
http://www.groundupshow.com

Becca Shern is a registered dietitian & founder of Minimal Wellness. She teaches people how to live healthy & fulfilled lives by adopting a simple lifestyle.

The health and wellness industry is confusing as hell. It’s filled with soundbites & half-truths that pass through culture like a virus. Becca helps us figure out how to navigate these claims & breaks down the essential ingredients for a healthy life.

We also dive deep into her business, discussing the foundation of her messaging & how she communicates with her audience to filter only the clients she wants to work with.

You can find Becca here:  http://www.minimalwellness.com
**Keywords:** becca shern, minimal wellness, dietician, podcast, ground up, the ground up show, film, filmmaking, podcasting, how to, self help, nutrition, health, eating, food, fasting, 
**Date:** 2017-12-20

## Transcript
 People get really frustrated trying to figure out why they can't follow XYZ diet. Why am I able to execute this for a few days and then like just completely revert back to my normal habits? And it's like, well, you haven't looked at the rest of your life and how that interplays with the food choices that you're making. Becca Shurn is the registered dietitian behind minimal wellness. She teaches people how to live healthy lives by adopting a simpler lifestyle. The health and wellness industry is confusing as hell. It's filled with sound bites and half truths that pass through culture like a virus. Do you know how many beliefs I have that I heard somewhere from someone at some time, but I'm not really sure if it's true and I kind of believe it. You know, I heard magnesium is good for your sleep. I heard intermittent fasting helps to promote a healthy metabolism and you know, I really think we should be living like our ancestors did some 15,000 years ago because that guy in that YouTube clip, you know, you get the idea. Becca helps to figure out and navigate these claims. How do we find people that we trust? How do we find people that can really give us the best advice possible for our own lives and our own lifestyles? She talks about why it's simpler and better for you to eat unprocessed foods and breaks down the myths around it. And she takes a look at my massive protein jug to see if it's going to kill me or not. This episode of The Ground Up Show is brought to you advertisement free. If you want to support the show, you could do me a huge favor right now. Head over to iTunes and rate this show, rating is help to boost the visibility. It ensures that more people, more eyeballs, more earballs, are on this show. This is episode 38. You're listening to The Ground Up Show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matt Diavella and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. Yeah, about the coffee thing though. Like for me, I just switched to D-Caf. You know? Oh, you did, so you're pretty good. Well, like after 10, you know, like if I want another cup after 10, I'll just have a cup of D-Caf and it's like, okay, that's fine. Do you usually make it at home? Or is it like half and half, maybe? I started out with, you know, way back, I did the curing before I knew anything. And then I slowly transitioned to Aeropress. I think it was probably, yeah, like probably Tim Ferriss got me into the Aeropress. And I was like, all right, this is cool. And that was really good coffee, and it's like really easy to make, and it's really hard to screw up. And then I experimented with the pour over, but when I first got into it, it was kind of hard. I kept screwing it up, and the coffee wasn't very good. Yeah. And then I did French press for the show. Because I was like, oh, I need something that can brew multiple cups. And I just thought French press, I wasn't even thinking, and then that caught, I just didn't like it. I just, maybe I don't have an acquired taste for French press, but it was just so... It's thick. It's very thick. And I, like, I can make it strong and thick with the chemics and the Aeropress, but it was just different. It's almost like... It's like, my impression, I did French press for years. And my take on French press is that, like, you get more of the coffee grind actually in the coffee. Yeah. And the actual consistency of it is thicker. It's more viscous because there's a little bit of silt kind of in it. And so that becomes part of the flavor profile that people like is like, oh, it's got a different kind of mouth feel. I think for somebody who has a good, really good coffee, and if you're coming from curing, French press is probably better. Yeah, creme de la creme. But yeah, that whole thing with an acquired taste is tough, because part of it thinks like, oh shit, should I even acquire a taste for this? Because then I'm just going to ruin the... I'm going to ruin just regular coffee for me. And now I'm always going to have to seek out the best coffee wherever I go or the best scotch or whatever. Yeah. But at the same time, I guess it's, I don't know, that's just backwards thinking. So I've been doing this thing where like, I try to, you know, most of the time find really high quality, fantastic foods or beverages, right? And like, that I'll only drink like a cup of coffee if it is really good, right? And if it's not great, then it's like, oh, pass today or whatever. That said, like, I definitely need a cup in the morning. Yeah, totally. Yeah. Not fall over. Yeah. Like to keep going through the day. Like, yeah, like, it just, I feel so much better if I have a cup. Yeah. And at that point, it's like, if we're in a hotel and for some reason, like, we have a broader coffee kit with us. Yeah. It's actually a travel with a coffee kit. It's ridiculous, but awesome. Yeah. Yeah. If I, if we don't have that, like, I'll totally be a sucker and have a cup of shitty hotel coffee. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So keep going. And also, like, I'll taste it and I'm like, this is shit. But I'm also like, okay, like, you have to have the balance between, like, wanting good things and like prioritizing, putting good things into your body, like whole some things. Yeah. Hi, you know, quality produced, you know, clean things. And then also like, but you can live without doing that. Yeah. For me, it's also like part of a ritual, like when I wake up and actually, so I just started doing just right a little bit about the circadian fasting and the intermittent fasting is obviously been around for a while and pretty popular. Yeah. The circadian fasting was a little bit different. And it's, and I think it's actually not as long as intermittent fasting, but it's just eating, stop eating when the sun goes down and start eating when the sun goes up, around that principle. Yeah. But I guess the core tenant there is to make sure you don't, you stop eating for 12 to 13 hours. Right. And I saw this on Joe Rogan's podcast recently. I'm not really sure. There was science there. It was talking to somebody who knew what they were talking about. Yeah. Okay. This sounds like there's a lot of health benefits from it. I'm going to try it. What the woman was saying on the show was that you can't drink coffee. You can't have vitamins. Anything that will kick start your metabolism or whatever it is. It can your body going. It's not resting. So I was like, oh, that's going to be tough because especially it, I could actually not eat until 12 p.m. or 11 a.m. But I need coffee. To keep me going to that point. Because it does act as like a, it, it, what, it punches your appetite. Yeah. It's a little bit of an appetite suppressor. Yeah. Yeah. But so I guess the show started already. Yeah. So this could be the beginning. So I don't know if you want to put your headphones on. Yeah. Sure. It just helps a little bit to. So then you know if you're like close to the mic or too far away. You can tell me if you're. How that sounds for you. Is that good? Sounds great. Cool. So the. Tell me a little bit about yourself. People that haven't heard about what you do. Minimal wellness. What's it all about? Well, minimal wellness is sort of the the latest iteration of like my professional and personal life, right? So I'm a registered dietitian. I've a master's in public health. And I worked on a college campus for about a decade. And that was in Montana and the wages in Montana are notoriously low. I've always had this sort of like entrepreneurial streak. And so a few years ago, when I was still working on campus, I was like, well, I need a new way to supplement my income because clearly I'm not. Going to be where I want to be financially, especially as a newly single mom. And I was like, I need some sort of side hustle. And so in 2015, I started thinking about what that might look like. And came up with the idea of doing web-based nutrition coaching and doing a little bit of writing, a little bit of recipe development because those were the favorite parts of the work that I was doing on the campus. I was working with our chefs and developing recipes and working with students and helping them learn how to eat better and take care of themselves. And there just isn't a lot of population based in Montana to do it one on one in person. So I was like, well, let's just try this web-based thing. So the idea was literally do it as a side hustle for however long and not rely on it as a mainstream of income. But then in 2016, my position became sort of untenable. And I was like, well, time to pull this trigger. So the concept turned into reality really fast. Like I just put all my eggs in that basket and worked to make it happen. Well, it's good you got started before the job situation changed. Yeah, yeah, I mean, so I'm both conservative, but also willing to take risks. So I wouldn't have just been like, oh, this job is no longer viable. I'm just going to figure something out, like leave and figure something out, right? Like it had been percolating for quite some time. Yeah, I see that I see myself in the same way where I will take risks, but they're always very calculated. And that comes from being $100,000 in student loan debt, where I had taken risks before that when I was just a kid 18 years old, but I didn't realize the ramifications of what it would mean. And for the longest time, I wouldn't even focus and look into my finances or look into the problems I was having. And I would just continue to take these terrible risks. And then eventually I just have to take a step back and be like, I can't live this way forever. I need to actually, I do need to keep taking risks, but I need to be smart about it. And I need to make sure I'm ready for it. So even like starting this podcast and I actually just recently stopped doing client work. That was a big thing because that's my primary source of income. Like at one point it was a hundred percent. And now with minimalism out and starting to do original projects, I've got a little bit of income coming in from that. But for the most part, I was like, all right, I'm going to take this risk. But I've got some savings. I paid off my debt. I'm actually ready to tackle it. Yeah, yeah, that was a huge part for me. It was that I was in a financial position after 10 years of working in the real world. I was making where I'd been able to pay off my student loans. I had a lease on a car, but like, I didn't, you know, not terribly tethered to that, right? I could function with a cheaper car. So I really didn't have any debt. And during the process of leaving that position and starting minimal wellness, I got rid of my car and got a vehicle without a payment. So, you know, those calculated risks, right? It's like, okay, so get your expenses as low as I possibly can. And then, you know, work my butt off to try to make this new endeavor viable. Was there inspiration early on? Say 2015 when you're starting to think about doing this side hustle? Was there was it like Tim Ferriss? Or was there anybody that you were reading at the time? That was like, okay, this is viable. Yeah. I mean, I know a new of a number of nutritionists that had sort of web-based practices, whether that was a blog and recipe stuff or food bloggers, right? Like, that's a big source of inspiration for recipes when I was working on campus. I feel like 50% of the internet is just recipes like food blogs and food, Instagram videos, maybe it's because Natalie is just obsessed with them. All like randomly, like look at her, just like Googling, just food. It's just like all the porn. Yeah, full porn, all that. That's all she does. Yeah. But yeah, so you're saying you, this is, you're starting to see other people doing it. Yeah. So you're like, oh, I could do this. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. And, you know, I worked for Whole Foods when I was in college for a number of years, and was pretty wellness-focused for a long time. Pretty much my entire career I've been wellness-focused. So I've seen the growth of that industry of this industry over 15 years. And so, by the time I was ready to dive into it, I was like, yeah, like, you know, if you execute it while it's as possible. Mm-hmm. Yeah. What was the start? What was the website, a blog, is it? It's a website and a blog. I don't really know the difference. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's pretty much the same exact thing. It really is. So like, yeah, in 2015, I was doing it myself. I'm putting the website together and working on recipes and working on some blog posts, but mostly like putting the format of the website together. And then in 2016, when I was like, no, this is actually has to be like, viable right off the bat to start it working with Spire. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And they basically took the sad template that I had put together so far over the previous year, and made it beautiful and much more functional. Right. Well, but also like, at that time, it's when you first start a website, you're not getting a lot of traffic coming to it, so you feel like it's not that important, but sometimes for you, like, if you're just trying to get clients and how many clients do you need a month to really have a successful business, not that many. So even if you have 15 people coming to your website, it needs to appear legitimate and it needs to really convey the message you want to get across. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. So I feel like I took a good step at that myself, just because I had no budget. And then Spire really took it up a notch and made it more appealing and more effective. So that was great. And then I launched it in July of 2016. Mm-hmm. So obviously it was minimal wellness from the very beginning. It was, yeah. And like, so there's a blog portion where I kind of do like long-form writing about nutrition and wellness topics. It's not nearly as, like, nutrition heavy as one might expect. I try to keep it really broad and, um, and truly wellness focused and not so much nutrition. And then, uh, I do recipe development. And there's a portion of the website that's dedicated to, like, talking about my services. Like, how you can actually work with me one-on-one, or, um, I developed a group class that people can do for, you know, a lower fee relative to what you're getting in that program. So, yes, so you were like, into wellness for a very long time, but when did the minimal, when did the minimal, when did the minimal, when did the minimal, when did the minimal, um, you know, that's, that's a really good question because, like, from a conscious point of view, it's relatively recent. So within the last three years, um, I've really started to think about minimalism as a concept, um, and how it applies to, to my life and my lifestyle. Um, but prior to that, like, as a teenager, I think that I was a minimalist without really knowing it. Um, I did a lot of backpacking in high school, and, like, wilderness backpacking. So that'd be out in the middle of nowhere and, carrying around the food and supplies and things, with a group of other, you know, young women, and we live in the wilderness, um, and move around and have these amazing experiences with nothing, you know? And so, for weeks at a time, and I come back from those experiences and just feel like, the, the weight of living in normal society felt really heavy, like, uh, especially after several of the longer trips, I'd end up sleeping on the porch, you know, at night. Oh, really? Yeah, or, or, or, my porch of my childhood home, um, the screen porch in Minnesota. So it's not, like, you know, just completely open air. Like, I'm gonna tell you my vlogs and stuff. Yeah, we're out in Hollywood. Right, right, like, in the countryside and in the Twin Cities, Minnesota, um, so it's a very nice screen porch, just sleep on. But it was the screen porch nonetheless. And I just felt like, um, there's too much that we oftentimes bring into our lives, and I realize that, like, as a teenager. Um, I got away from that in college and in early adulthood, um, but over the last few years, I feel like I've really come back to that, like, you, you can live your life very happily with far less than you think you can. Yeah, I think it is about experimenting. And if you can find it at an early age, like, my younger sister, she watched minimalism and she was like, look at my closet. I got rid of everything. And she, like, totally. And she's, uh, she was at the time, I think it was, like, in high school. Yeah. So, or, or, like, early, early high school. So it was, it's nice to see that. And it's amazing if you can kind of come to those relations really on and I totally encourage it. Uh, but I also encourage people experimenting and trying different things. And, you know, seeing what works for you because you go away to college. And you're going to, there's going to be so many new experiences. You're going to be opening yourself up, too. Mm-hmm. And you should be sure of the one that you're heading down. Yeah. Yeah. I, I hesitate, you know, sort of strapping myself to any type of dogma or, you know, rigid way of thinking. So even the minimalist label, I'm like, eee, sure. Um, I like to just think of it as living with, with as little as you can or, um, living in a simple, you know, deliberate way. I think in our, our everyday lives, it is pretty pointless to have a term like minimalism applied yourself. Just as vegan is. Right. There are certain circumstances in which it can become helpful. Where if you're at a restaurant, you know, like, hey, do you have any vegan options? Yep. But it's like, hey, my name is Matt. I'm a vegan. Like, that's not going to happen or my minimalist whatever it is. And I don't think it's very, uh, helpful. But in the online world where we're kind of branding ourselves, exactly, ourselves out there and you have to, somebody comes to your website and they need to know what it's about, uh, right away. I think it's helpful to have, you know, if I'm, I'm the minimalist filmmaker. Oh, okay. Then you kind of start to connect the dots and you get it, versus I'm Matt Diavella. Right. You know what I mean? I struggle with and I'm still trying to figure out what's the best balance of that? Mm-hmm. But I do know that it's, it is important how you present yourself online. Yeah, absolutely. And for me, the minimal wellness thing, like, the name minimal wellness is kind of, um, counterintuitive, I think, initially, like, a whole minimal wellness. You mean, like, you're minimally well or, you know, you put a minimal amount of emphasis on wellness? No, no. Yeah. But I have found that putting my philosophy out there, meaning like, that I approach wellness from a simple, a point of view as possible, has been really helpful in terms of, um, directing the people who have a similar view on life, toward my work, and that the people that I eventually do work on, work with one-on-one or do, like, the reset program with, um, are already coming from a relatively similar place in terms of how they view the world, and sort of what they want their interaction with the world to be. And I think it leads to much better outcomes for them, and I find the work far more fulfilling when it's like, yes, we're on the same relative level in terms of how we view things independent of wellness. Yeah, I think that's a really good way to look at it, because you're, you're trying to help people and you're trying to get people that really connect with you and your message. So you really have to make sure that that messaging is really clear. Yeah. I love the wellness aspect too, because, like you said, it does open it up. So if it was just, uh, minimal, uh, nutrition or, yeah, like, you're just kind of constraining where you can go with it. Yeah. And that's one thing where it's like, for me, if I was just going to have interview filmmakers on this podcast, or other people that were in the same field. It's like, I think it just limits the amount of conversation you can have and the amount of different opinions that you can bring to the table. And by opening it up and saying, wellness, you allow more of that in. And there's more conversation to be had. Absolutely. And especially for, for my work, I've found that, and I've found this working with the students on campus before, um, starting minimal wellness is that most people, uh, understand at least on a pretty, fundamental level, like, what we should be eating and what we shouldn't be eating. It's, it's more the foundation on which we make those choices. And then sort of the peripheral, um, habits that we have around our, our food choices. So like, sleep, right? If we're not sleeping well, um, not only do we not feel great, but it also sets off this hormonal cascade where it makes food decisions exponentially more difficult, right? Or, uh, physical activity, you know, or you're circadian rhythm stuff with, with timing your meals around circadian rhythm. Um, there's sort of nuance things that end up being really important to lifestyle. And like, if you don't have that lifestyle piece down, it makes those, those food decisions a lot harder. And people get really frustrated, like, trying to figure out why they can't follow XYZ diet. Why do I keep falling off this way? And why do I, you know, why am I able to execute this for a few days? And then like, just completely revert back to my normal habits. And it's like, well, you, you haven't looked at the rest of your life and how that interplays with the, the food choices that you're making. Um, so I try to help people figure that part out as well as the diet piece. Um, because it's none of these things in isolation. It's just like, you can't just look at the food. You cannot. Yeah, that's a great point with the sleep, too. Because, and what I find too is, uh, when I do my work is like, I'm, I'm waiting towards the end of the day to do my most important work. I'm doing it in the morning when I have my most energy. Uh, all these decisions that you're making really matter. Uh, when you were talking about the sleep, what, what is your sleep schedule and habits look like today? Today, better. Yeah. I, I have been a really light sleeper my entire life. Like when I was a kid, my, my bedroom is in the basement. And, um, the door to our garage is like a tuck under garage, right? Mm-hmm. And the door to our garage was right next to my bedroom door. And my father would leave at often at five in the morning to get to work. And he wouldn't slam the door, but like, he would close the door. And every day it would wake me up. And I was like, it's not just teenager. I put like a note on the door. Oh, God. And then the most passive aggressive way to my dad. Like, because it has the only one going out. Yeah. Like, please, you know, be quiet when closing this door, sign the downstairs residence. You know, like, just horrific. Yeah. Um, and so I've always been a really light sleeper. And I, I went through this period, um, in my 20s, where I just slept like shit. It was just, it was bad. And, um, I came to the realization that it was a cluster of issues. It was too much caffeine. It was way too much stress. Like, obscene amount of stress. Um, both professionally and personally. And, um, so I really worked hard on, um, getting a handle on those pieces. One of them was, was leaving my position and starting minimal wellness. Like, that really helped with the professional piece of it. And then personally, like, going through a divorce and sort of finding my space as a, as a single mom and whatnot. Like, that ironically really helped as well. Um, so. Why, why did it help? There was so much tension in internal tension for me with realizing that, like, I was in this relationship that was not right. And, like, with the input of a daughter, like, having my daughter, our daughter, I guess. But, like, um, it clarified that situation for me and made it way more stressful just because I realized, like, oh, shit. Like, this isn't gonna work. And it's like, okay, so do I pull the plug now or do I pull the plug in 18 years when, you know, my daughter is graduating and gone off. And meanwhile, she's lived her entire life with parents that clearly don't get along. Don't love each other. Um, in long story short, I was just, like, option A. Like, pull the plug. Try to make it as peaceful and amicable as possible. And give her a loving, um, dual parent life. Where both parents theoretically are grounded and happy and, like, not trying to sleep on, they're trying not to function on two hours of sleep. Yeah. So they're really stressed out of their minds. And I think a lot of people look at divorce as a bad thing. And it's not necessarily that it's a bad thing, but it's the only good option left. Yeah. Yeah. And that's very much what it felt like to me. Um, so when I's uncoupled all of those crazy pieces of my lifestyle, I finally found like, oh, I can sleep better. And then I found a few, like, nutritional things that I had changed, like, the caffeine thing. Um, I started supplementing with magnesium for a while. Mm-hmm. I don't do that on a regular basis now, but, um, what is that house? Is that for sleep? I've heard that. Somebody told me this too. I recently talked about it with that. I think Jessalizama, she was on the podcast. Few episodes ago, but she was like, she also said she, I think she drinks water and lemon when she wakes up, and she didn't know why, but she heard it was good. Because I think I can easily am two before you go to bed, but I don't know why. This is like the health industry today, right? It's like, yeah. I think that's healthy. I don't know. There's so many sound bites, right? Great. Um, magnesium is just an essential co-factor in hundreds of different processes in our bodies. And one of them is asleep, or some of them are related to sleep. Some of them are related to stress management. Um, yeah. So it's just one of those really, really essential minerals that we don't get enough of most of the time in our diets now. Sleep very important. Mm-hmm. Eight hours. Time for eight hours. Depends, I guess, in the person, but for most people, it would be around eight. Yeah. Seven to nine. Yeah. But more than nine I've heard is actually just as bad a worse than less than seven. Yeah. Yeah. That's one of those things I've heard. Exactly. Exactly. I've heard more than nine. Yeah. But I bet like three hours is worse than ten. You know what I mean? One hundred percent. But sometimes four hours is probably worse than ten. Yeah. Six hours is probably. But when sometimes when I sleep ten hours, I mean, I rarely do now, even because once you start to get on that schedule and you start waking up at six a.m. Every day, even on the weekends, your body just wakes yourself up. But when I have sub 10, eleven hours a day, like when I was just getting started out with this business and trying to figure out how to manage my time, it was, I felt worse. I felt really bad. It was like, I wake up tired. And you're like, I just got ten hours asleep. Why am I tired? Mm-hmm. So I think it's maybe that's like the moderation aspect to it. If you sleep all day, it's probably not going to be very good for you. Right. Right. It really helps make you something else yourself. Yeah. Yep. I've never had that problem. You've never had problems with that. You've never had someone who's a too much of a daughter. I think kind of, you have to wake up. This is true. Yeah. This is true. Although Mercephly, she is a really good sleeper. It's amazing. Okay. Was it just talked early on? Yeah, I recently knew nephew. He's about a year old now. And I hear all the stories from my brother. Yeah. His wife. You know, we're just Natalie and I are assessing it out. Like, what would it be like to have a kid? Right. How crazy is it? Because it's the first month. They're like, this is easy. I can do this all day. This is no problem. No sweat. And then like three, four months annually. This is tough. This is really hard. It's a full time job. All the time. All day every day. You can just turn it off. But yeah, we'll see. Not any time soon. Calculated risk. We'll have Ella come and hang out over here for an hour or two. I would love to make such. I don't think I met Ella in person. I don't think so. Yeah. But I do follow her. Well, actually, I don't follow her in Twitter anymore because I only follow the rock. Because I recently unfollowed everybody, but the rock. Really? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because it was part of the goal. It was kind of just like, when I launched the get the rock on Matt's podcast. I'm so excited. So I launched that website. And I was like, oh, I only want to follow the rock on Twitter for the launch of it. Because it's about having your focus, right? And having the priority. And the rock was my priority. But I do kind of miss my Twitter feed. I miss Ella sandwich. Ella sandwich if everybody wants to follow. Amazing tweets from Ella. Yes. These are real tweets from her mouth. There's so many things that she'll say that don't make the cut. Because they don't translate quite perfectly to Twitter. Right. Like they need the context of whatever was going on when she says them. Yeah. It's straight quotes. Yeah, it's beautiful though, too. Now one little worry. Now that we've got with 280 characters. My Ella rant might be. I don't know if you guys have fully taken advantage of that. We have not. Josh is really protesting the expansion of this. Doesn't like it. He hates it. How does he like opens up a word counter? I don't know. I haven't asked him. You're at what how you feel about the new word count. Twitter and I, his struggle. Yeah. You only do too much. No, no. That's a little median. I like even Instagram, which I feel like. At least for me is the most approachable one. I struggle with it. What's the biggest feeling? I'm oversharing. Or I feel that way all the time. God, it just. Yeah, I just, I struggle with it. Yeah, because well, I'm doing it mostly as a business. Like I started it out just doing it personally. And I, you know, I make it personal as well. Yeah. But most of my stuff these days are just videos and excerpts from the podcast. And that's the thing where I'm like, I post like. Two a week, usually maybe three a week. Just like, I don't think that's a lie. I think it's, I guess that you could probably do a one a day, right? Yeah. But like, I don't know. It's like the time that it takes to do it. But then it's also a trap because then once you post, then you're like, like refresh, a little bit of comments. All right, let me comment and message with other people. And then let me look at other. And then all of a sudden you're distracted. And now you're on your phone for the entire day because you posted one thing. Exactly. I feel the exact same way. I, I really do not want my life being taken over by social media. Mm-hmm. Or anything for that matter. But like, um, it very much could go with that direction. If you follow it all of the, you know, best practices are like, how to optimize your, whatever. Yeah. You know, look at that. Oh my god. No. I don't, like, I don't. But they're just here, like little flitters. Like the nutrition stuff. Oh, I heard drinking lemon water in the morning is great. Yeah, like I heard posting at 7 a.m. Post and this and that. And especially when you're starting out, it can be very easy to get really caught up in that stuff. And think of it's the most important thing. Mm-hmm. But I really doubt that that's what's going to tip you over the edge. Right. Right. You know, Cal Newport stuff has been really helpful for me with regard to, like, trying to figure out where the balance is with social media and email and just, like, doing the same thing. I've heard of him. So he's an, he, he's a professor. Mm-hmm. Um, I think he's a professor of, um, computer science at Georgetown. Mm-hmm. He was on the the minimalist podcast in DC. Oh, recently. Recently, but Josh was. Josh was in the hotel room with Josh and 103 degree fever. Um, so we missed it, which was gutting. But, um, yeah. So he's a, he's a professor, but he's also an author. And he writes a lot on focus. And, um, getting really good at prioritizing deep, his latest book, I think. I think it's his latest book. It's called Deep Work. Mm-hmm. Um, and he talks about cultivating the ability to focus, especially if you're in a knowledge-based field. Um, so you have to be able to, to focus really intensely on, on honing the skills required for your craft in order to get to that level that you, you really want to be. And that things like social media, email, like 20 year olds can, can do that. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And not to this 20 year olds. But, um, that's, that's not what I want the world to think of me as is like, oh, she's really good at Instagram. No, you're really, I want to be really good at helping people lead healthier lives. Mm-hmm. So you kind of like see that as the main focus and then everything comes from there. Mm-hmm. Um, it can be still though, frustrating to, because you do want to help a lot of people, and you want to have your message be successfully, uh, successfully reach. Lots of reach, yeah. Yeah. Like you want to, you want to help a lot of people. Mm-hmm. And part of that is, you know, having an Instagram, having a Twitter, and I think it would be wrong not to have these things. Uh, you know, maybe you, you don't have Twitter. Maybe you won't, you're selective about which ones you post on, which is totally fine. I think that's like a great, great advice that I don't take. Yeah. Like I post across everything because I'm like, well, you know, might as well, like even on Facebook. It's like maybe like five people like my posts. Mm-hmm. But every time I'm like, ah, you know what? It's going to take an extra 10 minutes for me to post across this. I might as well because I don't know what's going to happen. You know what I mean? Like what if this is the thing that takes off. And like in six months, it goes big. But like I said, advice I don't take. Uh, but I think if I just said, all right, Instagram is going to be my only thing. And that's all I'm going to post on. That's actually it now. It's starting to sound like a good idea. I'm like, maybe I'll just do Instagram and then forget everything else. I'm very close to like just kind of signing off of Facebook. Yeah. Facebook is tough. I mean, but even like Instagram is owned by Facebook now. So I don't know how it's going to change in the future. Right. Uh, yeah, the Facebook thing is it's it's just crazy. Um, in that you used to be able to say if you had a thousand followers or a thousand friends, whatever it was, you could post and you would reach all of them very quickly. Yeah. And now they've really pulled back the throttle. Change the algorithm. Everybody's upset about the algorithm. I don't even know. Like whatever. Yeah. It's a thing. No, it's like because then you have all these people that are like, do this, this and this. This is how you maximize your reach. And you're like, why don't want to actually focus on maximizing my reach. I want to focus on my message and then put it out there. My message might work. But it's frustrating when you're when you're doing great work. You're producing really inspiring and meaningful content. And you put it out and nobody listens. What do you do then? Yeah. I don't know. That's what we're trying to figure out, right? It's like if there was a if there was a secret recipe to it. Um, there's got to be an element of consistency, right? Where you just keep doing it. In 2015 you start making blog posts and putting stuff out there. I'm sure nobody was listening. Maybe, you know, a dozen people or handful of people. Yeah. I didn't even publish in 2015. I, I was doing the pre work, so to speak. Because I'd never done writing for a blog. I'd never produced recipes for publishing. I'd only produced recipes for for our chefs to make better. And then, you know, scale up to feed. Twenty five hundred students. You know, so it's really different. Um, so I was really just like behind the scenes, like, pretending kind of that it was going out to the world. Yeah. And then. And then 2016 is like, okay. Yeah. You do start to build a little bit of an audience and start people start listening. And people start paying attention to what you're writing and talking about. How does that process evolve? Like, and when do you start to create a viable business where you're having, you know, multiple clients. You have a really steady income stream. Yeah. So it's been live for a year and a half now. And I'd say within the last nine months. I've kind of been like, okay. This, this is on the trajectory that it needs to be on. Um, because I had virtually no overhead. It was technically, um, you know, in the, in the, in the black. In the big space. So I had like, you're living costs and all that. Right. Right. Exactly. Um, so the business was technically solvent right away. But. Not my life. Um. Uh, so yeah, within the last nine months or so, it's been like, okay. Like, this is the correct trajectory. Whatever I'm doing. Um, whatever levers are getting pulled with, with posting and social media. Um, it's working well enough to where, you know, hopefully within this next year. I'll have my replacement income there. Um, but like, I fully intended on it taking two years. So yeah. Yeah. I think that's actually, you should, I at least set an expectation that things aren't going to pop off within two years or within a year. Yeah. I'm sorry. Yeah. Some of the best advice I got actually was from Josh. And he was like, don't focus on making money. Focus on creating the best content. The best stuff you can. The best writing. Focus on creating the best recipes. Um, doing the best work with the clients you possibly can. And he's like, the money will follow. Mm-hmm. I might have the same conversation with Josh. Really, really. He probably has it with, it lasts a lot of people because it's such solid advice. Yeah. Um, and so every time, you know, I get a little apprehensive about like, Oh, God, income streaming. I'm just, go back and focus on writing more, doing some recipes and getting, you know, work out into the world. It's also nice to know that other people are doing it. Like, if there's dozens, there's thousands and thousands of nutritionists that make a living online. Totally. Um, so it's very, it's possible. Yep. And if you really believe in the message that you're putting out there, and you believe that you've got a little bit of a different approach, you need to approach to it, then I really feel like it's a matter of time. I agree. Um, and like, I think makes it up and change things around. If like, you're not reaching an audience and you're continuing to just throw thing against the wall and nothing sticks, um, maybe sort of get a little bit more creative figure out what sort of podcast. Like, I think something like starting a podcast or having a blog where you can reach out and connect with people and start to build a network. Mm-hmm. That's what's going to lift you up because nobody makes it on their own. So by starting this podcast, it's like, I knew that the only way out was going to be able to get more listeners is to just expand my network and meet new people. And then those people will share it. I'm also interviewing people with interesting stories. So I'm creating better content and better, um, work to put out there. And it just kind of builds on itself over time. But say, even as a nutritionist, if you want to start a podcast, and then you could also interview with other nutritionists. Hey, they have the same exact audience that you're looking to gain, and you're building this connection with them. Maybe you can write a blog post for them or maybe you can have them on your podcast. Whatever it is, it's about building these relationships that hopefully, where you can help other people and then they can eventually help you down the road as well. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. What's I think is the, I want to talk about the difference between, uh, registered, uh, is it registered di-trition versus nutritionist? Yeah. What's the deal there? So registered dietitians, um, they actually changed their name recently. So now they're registered dietitian nutritionist, which is really confusing. So confusing. It just monies of what are even more. So registered dietitians are required to, currently are required to do a bachelor degree, um, and a number of related fields to nutrition. So they, they're required to basically take all of the sciences that a person going into med school or going into nursing. What after take? So chemistry biochemistry, physiology, anatomy, yada yada. Um, but then we also tend to have classes in food science and, um, sort of like hospitality, restaurant management, food service management. And then after completing the bachelor's degree, we have to do an internship. It's basically a year-long supervised practice. Um, where we go into all of the different areas that a dietitian typically works, whether that's in clinical care within a hospital or outpatient care, like in a, in a dialysis center for people with diabetes, or, um, long-term care facility, food service management, wick programs, all sorts of places. And so we spend a year doing that more or less. And then you can sit for a national board exam. So it's a, it's a board examination required credential. Um, and then every five years you're required to do a certain amount of continuing education. So there, there's very specific parameters around getting becoming a registered dietitian. Um, depending on your state, there may or may not be any requirements for claiming to be an nutritionist. So, and that it's completely state-specific. So some, some do require some education, some training, some ongoing credentialing, some licensure. So hypothetically, I could, I don't know if I'm California depends on what it is, but say if it's allowed in California, I could just call myself a nutritionist. Theoretically. Yeah. And I would be just by sheer will. Yeah. Yeah. There's zero, like, broad US-based standards for what a nutritionist is. And somebody that's trying to approach this industry and find somebody to get advice about their diet and what they're eating. Yeah. How would they go about navigating it and how do they know who to trust and what opinions to believe? It's so confusing. Like, I, I put myself in a consumer's shoes or just generally a person's shoes. And it's mind-blowing how many people have opinions about nutrition and opinions about wellness and health. So, my best recommendation, like, on the baseline, is to avoid people who have extremely restrictive recommendations. And then, it's, it's could try to look into the credentialing as much as possible. Most people don't make that terribly easy to find, which adds to the frustration. You know, if it's, if it's hard to find what a person is credentialed in, that's kind of a red flag, at least to me. It's the most people who have, you know, who went to med school, for example, or who are, you know, functional medicine practitioners, or, you know, are registered dietitians, um, nurse practitioners. You know, all these people who have lots of education in the field are generally going to make that known. It's like, in the first line. Yeah. So, like, yeah, I think that's actually probably a good indicator. Uh, if it is hard to find, they're probably not registered. It doesn't mean that they're wrong. Right. And that's where I was just going to go. Is it, like, I, I also am of the pretty strong opinion that just because you follow the path of, you know, becoming a physician or becoming a registered dietitian. By no means makes you really good in your field, or, or knowledgeable or cutting edge. And, um, those, those types of skills and knowledge, like, can be obtained other ways. And so, like, for example, Josh has been working with this functional medicine group, um, nurse balance thrive. And one of the guys that is, is Josh's main contact is a computer scientist by training. But dang, he is, he has done his homework. Um, and, and he has a group of physicians around him, so it's not just like him. Um, but if it was just him and just going off of my recommendation that I made a minute ago of, like, trying to find out what people in the background is, like, the, you know, Chris wouldn't fall into that traditional framework. But he's super fantastic. Yeah. It's kind of like, you have to balance both. Yeah. I think it's about, well, it certainly comes down to experimentation, uh, within a healthy parameter. I was, you know, check with your doctor, make sure that as long as you find a good doctor first. Right. But I think for the most part with diet and with sleep and a lot of stuff, it's like, you can experiment. Pretty responsibly. Like, I just actually just finished a 30 day vegan diet. Yeah. How'd that go? Uh, pretty good. So there was, I want to say, in the very beginning, the first couple days, my stomach, like, actually surprisingly, I just really, my stomach was hurting a lot. Um, I don't know what it was. It's kind of weird because you would think once you, when you bring meat back in, that's when it's going to start hurting. Yeah. So you might have been, so the vegan diet or plant-based diet, generally speaking, has a lot more fiber. Yeah. Um, then standard American diet, even healthiest standard American diet. And so that might have been what you're reacting to. He was just like, oh, there's a lot of fiber here. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I was in the bathroom a lot. I think I'm too specific. Yeah. I'm like, I don't have time for this. Yeah. Literally. Yeah. Yeah. It's just all day. Like, I'm just like in and out. And I'm like, fuck. Like, this is, there's a lot of fiber in these food that I'm eating fiber. Um, and, but because I was also trying to get stronger and lift and have the same amount of protein and calories that I was getting before. So I would eat just beans and rice and beans and rice. And I'd have three smoothies a day and I would have so much food because the way that ritual put it was that, you know, me and a non vegan diet is more calorically dense. So you don't have to eat as much food. Like, if you eat half a pound of chicken, there's a lot more calories packed in that than if you eat that weight in spinach. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a big caveat to that. And the nuts and beans are nuts and seeds are in plant-based fats are, like, plant-of-hole, super calorie dense. Yeah. Like, um, if you're comparing meat to vegetables, yeah, that was totally unfair of me. No, no. It's not unfair of you. It's a complete, uh, generalization that we tend to make. Yeah. Like, oh, plant-based diet is automatically, you know, really, um, calorie is not calorie dense. Um, and a meat-based diet is, uh, it can be. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so yeah, the first three days were a little bit challenging. Just with that regard. Once I got over that hump, I was fine and I felt great, um, and it was, I ended up getting sick. Um, I actually went traveling. I went back to the East Coast to visit my family. Mm-hmm. So those two combined were challenging. Like, first it was the traveling. And like, these are the obvious things that you would think about when going to vegan diet, that's going to be tough. It's going to be going out and eating and traveling. Mm-hmm. And you have to be extra mindful and extra thoughtful about that. Yeah. The first restaurant I went to, uh, somebody in Yelp was saying, oh, they really were accommodating to my vegan diet. So then we went there and then they weren't accommodating to my vegan diet. So I had an arugula salad and that was it. And it was just arugula and olive oil. And they didn't even add anything else to it. Which I was totally fine with. I was like, I have chosen this lifestyle for 30 days. Yeah. And I'm going to live with the consequences. I'm going to complain about it. So I had that in a cocktail. And that was like all I had. I was very hungry. But I was like, that was early on. And I was okay. Cool. I'll just be more mindful about the places we go through next time so I can get a filled-up diet. That's easy. Traveling was a little bit more challenging because I was staying with my brother and his family. So, you know, I had to go out grocery shop and cook for myself and I couldn't just rummage through the pantry. Right. It's fine, whatever I wanted. Right. But then I got sick on that flight there and then coming home, I was really sick. And so, yeah, some people say, like, I've been vegan, I don't get sick. And I don't know if that's necessarily that can't be true. But is there something there to be said about being more resilient to bacteria and disease? I don't think it's directly attributable to vegan diets. I think it's attributable to eating better. Right. Because if you're eating vegan, you're more likely to be eating more nutritious foods. You can be. Yeah. Right. Like so. Yeah. But it's like the whole thing with people who, you know, if you study people who take vitamins, it's probably more likely that those people would be eating healthy anyway because they're taking vitamins. But if you're eating vitamins and pizza, it's probably not going to make any difference. Right. You're making the effort to do something that you think is probably going to improve your health by eating plant-based and therefore you make better decisions around food. Sure. Thank you. Can eat really healthfully and still eat animal products. I think you can eat really healthfully and not eat animal products. I don't think it's like an either or sort of situation for most people. Yeah. And so that was tough because then I was like trying to gain weight and gain muscle and get stronger. But then getting sick and just threw me off because I didn't want to eat when I was sick. Yeah. That's crazy up anyway. Yeah. So I was like, it's really tough. I couldn't really say. But it wasn't for me personally. Maybe I'll probably eat less red meat now. I'll do steak more occasionally for like nice dinners. I was surprised that it actually didn't hurt to bring it back. What did hurt was the protein shake. So I like, I do like a, like a, I actually went on the Viga protein shake. Yeah. Which is great. It's like plant-based. Like a lot of vitamins and minerals and it's a good one. It was actually, yeah. I was really surprised. So I got, I like went overboard. But I got the chocolate and the plant-based one. That's like neutral flavor. It's like a throw it into my smoothie. Yeah. That was like amazing because having that extra protein in my smoothies was great and it continues to be great. Then I went back to the muscle builder way air. Yeah. You want to see a pull out right away. But it's like absurd. I haven't eaten it down here now. So I'm like in. Oh my god. Yeah. Yeah. So you can take a look at it. So yeah. This is like just makes you big by looking at it. Josh was over. Yeah. You just started putting on pounds. Josh saw it. I always said he was in the kitchen. He just was cracking up laughing. This is the start. Yeah. He's like, that's the biggest thing a protein I've ever seen in my life. It is. Dude, I've been consuming that stuff since college. Yeah. So it works. It actually does like work. It does like work to build muscle and. And mass. Uh huh. But like look at. So look at the the. Is there anything that what's jumps out at you about that? Is it just the total number of. It's is way protein. So like. Yeah. Way protein. Is from, you know, milk. Yeah. Product. So it's dairy based. Yes. And so especially after not doing any dairy for 30 days or longer. Like you're your body down regulates the enzymes that it needs to to break that stuff down. So while it might not have given you grief. Prior to that 30 days. Um, you were conditioned. You, you had your body sort of primed like to expect the fact that you were going to give this. This huge bolus of way to it. And so it had the enzymes. Um, at the ready to take care of that. Whereas after the 30 days is like, Oh, That's not eating. We're not eating dairy anymore. We're going to like not. Not produce as much of this enzyme. That's a hard thing about everybody's like just listen to your body. But then you're like, you're, you've already conditioned your body to accept the food, the shitty food that you're eating. Um, so that's when it's hard to listen to it. So the enzymes and all that stuff is it healthy or to not make your body build up those enzymes. Or does it actually doesn't affect your overall health as much? So it really depends. I think way in particular is an individual sort of response thing, or some people handle it just fine and we'll continue to handle it just fine. Other people are super reactive to it. Like, I could eat that and be fine. Yeah. Josh would eat that and be doubled over within a half an hour. It's a, what's surprising is that like I actually thought the ingredients is going to be like, But it's actually, it's protein blind weight protein isolates weight protein. And that, let's just put protein blind. It's a relatively clean. Cope, coka. Yeah. Natural and artificial flavors. Yeah. It's like a gram of sugar in it? No. It's, um, it's just way protein. Look at it. And it's like, actually when I look at the actual, how it's just like puff. It's just like, soft. It's just like, saw dust. I, uh, so I took, uh, and I took, so I took two, two scoops in my water. And I had it before a workout. And then just, I just was destroyed. I had a headache the whole day. I was like, I was probably like how Josh would react to it. Where I just felt terrible. Um, I ended up just like lying down and like just sleeping for the rest of the day. I legit couldn't do anything. Yeah. I'm like, holy shit. This really affected me. I was already not feeling great. Um. This I probably just like added to it. Yeah. But at the same time, I'm like, damn. Like, I don't know if I can go back to this stuff. And I was like, I don't know if I want to. Right. Right. That's the interesting thing that like, when you start eating better, it, it becomes a sort of reinforcing cycle. Or you start eating better, you start feeling better. And then when you get that cycle going pretty good, it's like, oh, I don't actually want that thing that I used to gravitate toward because after I eat that, I feel like crap. And so, um, that's one thing that becomes really powerful with clients. It's like helping them identify that cycle. And the positive feeling becomes part of the reinforcement for keeping those habits going. Is there one thing that you would point to or say one habit that people can develop that would help to kind of create that domino effect of their overall health? So like a dietary wise, getting sugar as low as you possibly can. I'm added sugar. That is. Um. Americans eat an obscene amount of sugar. There are lots of different estimates on how much it is. You know, 90 plus grams is an often cited amount. Whereas, you know, the American Heart Association. Now, thankfully, put out recommendations saying, you know, it should be more like 25 grams for women and 35 grams for men of added sugar. So, a third or a quarter, you know. That's in some things I eat, like just like a protein bar or something. Yeah. Oh, totally. You pull out a protein bar from an average health food store. And yeah, 25, 35, 40 grams of sugar. Easy. In some of the big ones. Wow. Yeah, they're candy bars. Yeah. It's harder for, I don't have as much as a sweet tooth these days. But it still is like, I still have probably way more than 25 to 35 grams of sugar a day. But as a kid, I would just devour sweet and joy. Yeah, I'm like, how am I still alive? And that's the most important time to be eating healthy because you're growing and, you know, all that stuff. Yeah, you're also the most resilient. That's true. Yeah. Like, I used to just get knocked down or play sports and I'd be fine. But now if I play softball, I'm like, I need to take the week off. Like, need to relax. Intense off. Yeah. Are there any food docs? Like, I know that there's like fed up and a lot of great documentaries on food or there ones that you point to that might be helpful to people starting out in their journeys. Really? I feel like I'm a bad person to ask that question too because I tend to not watch them. Mm-hmm. I don't watch many documentaries either. For a documentary film, I can't even imagine. I'm like, I like him every once in a while. But I'm more focused on creating stuff than I am on consuming it. Me too. Yeah. So, you know, food ink seem to be like, and it's got like 10 years old probably at this point. But that one, I've found that lots and lots of people got a lot of value from an affair, like the industrial food system piece and just kind of how our food is produced. It was really helpful for a lot of people that I've worked with. I love the movie King Corn. It was another old food documentary. And I love that one a lot because they talked about like the story of corn and how it went from animal food to now people food. Mm-hmm. I don't know. It wasn't so focused on like ill health as much as it was just like telling a story. Mm-hmm. And I thought that was kind of cool. Yeah. Yeah. Which I think is what most of the ones that I have seen recently, like they just have a clear agenda. Right. And so that's why I'm like, Hey. We met and I watched a couple of them. We just kind of laughing. Is they try to build up these conspiracy theories? Yeah. What are they? What are they not telling you? And it's like, yeah. These are just people who are monitoring. Yeah, exactly. And it's like, you can say sensationalize this and get the wrong message out there. But like you said, you're not really showing the full picture. Right. And if you're a nutritionist or a dietitian who says, you know, you can only eat this diet to be healthy. You're probably, you probably don't know what you're talking about. Yeah. We're just not being, like, honest. You're not being honest. Yeah. Yeah. I think the one actually know that we've talked about a few times. Fed up is pretty good. It came out probably four or five years ago. Mm-hmm. That was the sugar. Yeah. Yeah. I was actually not going to watch it because I was like, you know, I've seen a food ink and that was really that had been a big impact on me. Mm-hmm. And I'm like, there's, oh my god, there's like a hundred. If not, there's hundreds of them on Netflix. Literally. There's so many food documentaries. And it's like, you know, I don't know if I want to watch it. It's enough people kept telling me, you gotta watch it. You gotta watch it. Mm-hmm. That's actually good. Because solid. Yeah. I think it actually just gets you to think a little bit more consciously. And the thing with food ink, it got me to just like look on the ingredients and look for was like the enriched flour and make sure that's not in there and make sure if you were getting bread, it was whole grains and the same thing with looking at the sugar contents to make sure. Like, yeah, people grab a yogurt off the shelf and I think it's healthy, but it's got, you know, 30 grams of sugar in it. Yeah. I feel like food ink did a really good job of getting the general conversation started within our society. Or it can start the conversation for people who have not been engaged with it at all. Yeah. And then fed up, we'll take you to the step further with the sugar stuff. Uh, since we're talking about diet and stuff, we should talk about, uh, I was thinking about doing this thing with, uh, so like I launched Get the Rock on Maths podcast and trying to get the rock on the show. And like, you know, really I'm trying to prepare for this interview that may never happen, but I really want to like, all right, if I'm actually going to sit down with Duane Johnson, I need to be ready. I need to really like feel like I understand who he is and what he's been through. So I'm in the process of watching every single rock movie. Oh my God. Yeah. It's been a, it's been a fun. There's a lot. I've got a list of them and I'm checking them off. I watched all 30 episodes of Ballers already. It's actually an amazing show. If you're into that baller's is an amazing writing. Duane Johnson at some of his best acting, you know, he's just got a role that fits him. I just watch Baywatch recently, surprisingly funny. I'm telling you. I'm telling you. Baywatch is one of those movies that I'm so when I'm flying. Yeah. I'll see it on someone else's screen and like not be able to take my eyes away from his whole flight. Yeah. So I like I've watched it probably, you know, piece by piece. And it's entirety without the sound. Yeah. It's, I'm telling you, it's actually really funny. And it's, it's tongue and cheek. They know that it's kind of like the Baywatch is kind of corny. And it's like, but it plays to that. And I think they do it. That's actually one of my favorite movies that he's in because I think it's just character fits well. Hercules. I do actually because I was leading up to the launch. I've got the rock on Matt's podcast. And I was like, what if this takes off? I like, and people are going to look to me as an expert for the rock. And I shit and like say all of a sudden like the rock tweets me say, Hey, let's do an interview tomorrow. And I'm like, oh shit. I'm not ready. So I'm like, I need to really start back. So actually read his book. He's got it. He's got a best selling book. Rock says pretty interesting book about his career. And how he got started out in movies. But anyway, this is something that's not original. People have been doing it for about a year now. There's actually a Mark Webster. He's got a website called Rocking for 30 days where he ate and trained like The Rock for 30 days. This is in 2000. The summer February 2016. Okay. So it's a little bit old. But he went viral. I think there's there's other people that did it. Buzzfeed did it. Uh-huh. A few others ate like the rock for 30 days. And this is a little far away from veganism and misooming. Yeah, exactly. I'm over 30 days of vegan the 30 days of the rock. It's about the polar opposite as possible. But I want to do this. Do this do that right now. Yeah. So I want to eat like the rock for 30 days or more to really get into his mindset and understand what he's gone through in his training. And I found a diet online. I want you to look at you being a health and wellness expert. I think maybe you can help me in understanding if this is going to kill me or not. But um, so this is actually. This is his diet and you can scroll down because you can see like the, The calories in there. But this is just again photo. So you can zoom in if you need to. But he's so he had seven meals a day. Okay. Um, including a protein shake before bed. Uh, it's 10 pounds of food a day. And what? Oh my god. So 5000 calories. What's the average? Uh, like recommended. I mean for a 2000 ballpark. Yeah. Yeah. Sort of healthy. It was like three times moderately active adult. Yeah. A little less than three times. 466 grams of protein. You got to give big. This is for this. But this is for this is when he was training for hercules. It was a 22 week program. 22 week program. He spent almost $16,000 on food. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That is a medication. Detication. Priority. Priorities. Yeah. Well, what is it? What does his workout routine look like? I don't know. I have to pull that up for you as well. But it's like, I think it's definitely like at least two hours a day. Of intense. Yeah, intense. Like elliptical like really hard training. I'm sure he had a trainer during that time as well. Yeah. But here's the thing. Here's what I was thinking. Is that I think it's unrealistic. And actually probably unsafe. I don't think it's even possible for me to eat that amount of food for 30 days. No. Because he's somebody who weighs 250-60 pounds. Yeah. Absolutely. So I was thinking about just doing like a ratio of that. You could. You know, based on my weight, 155 pounds. Yeah. Yeah. And we could help you figure that out. Yeah. Yeah. I know that. The funny thing is is you're you hit it spot on. Is like his physical size is driving most of that. And then the secondary piece is his whatever crazy activities he's doing within those two hours. And that could vary so much. And I don't know if they detail that in the plan or not. But like going on a two hour walk is very different than doing the, you know, high intensity interval training for two hours or, you know, Olympic weightlifting. Yeah. So it totally depends on what you're actually asking your body to do. Whoa. What would you do? Somebody came into, you know, like sit down with you and do a consultation and say, Hey, I want to go on this diet. Yeah. Although I guess people probably don't do that as much as they ask you advice for what diet they should be on. But let's just say somebody's like, I want to approach this in a healthy way. Like would you recommend going on this diet or is this the dumbest thing you've ever seen? Neither. Neither. Yeah. Yeah. So like looking at that real quickly, you know, it's super super high protein. And it's really high carb. And it's, it's really low fat. And so generally speaking, that's not the type of ratios I'd recommend. But like, he's clearly looking for a certain outcome. Right. And I shredded shredded and, you know, quick fashion. And he wants to be able to continue those workouts. You know, basically every day or like, you know, with very little rest in between. And so it's specifically designed for it. It being a short short duration. Very intense specific outcome. And so it's probably really good for that. But it's not. You shouldn't be like that. For protein. In perpetuity. Yeah. I'm actually curious what his like every day diet is because I still just like, He's always just ripped and jacked. Yeah. Hercules was like next level where he just. Is that the Hercules that's the Hercules diet? That's the Hercules diet. I was 22 weeks leading up to or during the filming or whatever it was. I think leading up to the actual production of Hercules. Yeah. Which makes sense. It's the role of Hercules to be huge. Oh, though it's funny. You look at like Kevin Sorbol. I don't know if you refer it into Hercules at all. Or Zina. Not even Zina. Oh, man. That was like my shit growing up. I was such a shelter to get it. Yeah. Hercules was Kevin Sorbol. Oh, my. I'm going to show you a photo of this. You're going to crack up. I wonder if there's actually a photo of Kevin Sorbol versus the rock. Oh, please. Maybe this is just the unrealistic body standards of men today. It's not fair. Sorbol. Like not jack at all. Yeah. So why you do that? Let's talk a little bit about unrealistic body standards. Right. So like. Yeah. Oh. I think they're. That's like a great. Great conversation. Yeah. It's fair. It's fascinating to see the evolution in our body standards. But also like it's a little grotesque. Right. And what I assume you're going to pull up is just like this relatively healthy, big, looking dude in the 80s. And then. Yeah. That's like the. Where is it? There it is. It can be seen on the shot right there. But that's the before. I mean, that's Kevin Sorbol. That's that's him. Like these days. Well, that's the rock right there. Just mess. But that's also like a different body type. But also I think. This is also back in the day as well. This is, um, I think that's Lou Ferigno. Okay. Oh, okay. He was playing. Hercules rose well. So there were big dudes back then. And Arnold Schwarzenegger was back then. Right. He was pretty big. Yeah. But I think it's like probably as like the sciences evolved. And these products have evolved to be able to get crazy big. Um, people have pushed the boundaries. But also it is the image thing, right? It's definitely an image thing. Um, and I think that. Being a woman. I tend to hear from women on this issue far more than men. Mm-hmm. But it's very apparent that it hits both gender is pretty heavily. Mm-hmm. And, um, I think it contributes to. Looking at our food in unhelpful ways, right? Like, both helpful and unhelpful. So the rock is clearly eating that way. Like, his food is fuel. And he's using it in a very, like, strategic method. Like, a specific way. And that's good on one hand because he's probably not having all of these, you know, feelings and emotions swirling around with respect to his food. Um, but what happens to people when they stop having that goal? Like, when they reach that goal or when they, when he films the movie, and then go, has to go off and be a normally rock human being for. He's never normal. I know. I know. The second that was called a caramel. For example, the use. Yeah. Um, but like, the, the, you, for example. Like, when you came off the vegan diet, like, did you find yourself kind of floundering for a while? Or did you, like, pretty seamlessly go back to what you were doing prior? I think you do flounder a little bit because you kind of, you develop these habits. That just becomes slow. So seamlessly, a part of your life. They're like, oh, what did I eat? What do I want for breakfast and like, how should I plan out my meals throughout the day? Like, it definitely changes a lot when you, for the first couple days. We're looking back into it. Yeah. And that was only 30 days, right? We do this thing for a couple months or whatever. Um, and then you achieve your outcome without that structure. Um, a lot of people, to flounder. They just don't know what to do. It's like, the, our bodies are pretty good if we fuel them with wholesome food. It's not processed. It's not, you know, got a bunch of chemicals in it. It's pretty good at being like, hey, you need some, some protein today. Or extra protein. Or you need some extra carbohydrates. Or like, today's the day where your appetite's just really low. And so you just don't eat very much. But two days later, you might eat a lot, right? And that's how our bodies are designed to work. Is like, they ab and flow. Our diet, our intake is supposed to kind of ab and flow along with what we're asking it to do. And when we rely too much on like, trying to achieve a specific physical appearance or trying to adhere to a specific diet, we lose touch with that rhythm of our bodies and what they're supposed to be doing. And it gets really confusing for a lot of people. It's like, well, I want to look this way, which is very different than what my normal physique would be. Like, very few people inherently are going to look like the rock. Or even he's half Simone. Like, come on, like. Right. And you know, the genetic lineage for like some woman people. And I'm probably going in the territory. I shouldn't be right now. But like, they, they're huge people. They're like, I was just going to say like, they, they can clearly put on muscle easily. They can also put on weight very easily. They struggle disproportionately with diabetes. And so it's like, those two actually kind of go hand in hand. So people that can can put on muscle really easily can also suffer the ill effects of too much metabolic going on and ending up with things like diabetes. So it's, yeah. I get to take ways like, don't focus so much on the outcome. And that's the same thing with any, like, when you're approaching a big project, or if you're, you know, looking to get into minimalism, and you think that minimalism is just going to save your life and everything is going to be perfect. Right. You're looking for that outcome. Yeah. And you're like, it may help you to understand what you truly want in life. But don't look for that outcome. Don't look for it. Hey, if I, you know, look like this, then everything's going to be perfect. Totally. Totally. It's more for me anyways. Focus on doing the foundational things that might get you to that outcome. But if it doesn't get you to that outcome, or if you don't even have that outcome in mind, if you just focus on doing the things day in and day out, that will lead to health that will lead to better outcomes, or professionally, you'll probably find yourself at a good place. Yeah. I think that's the advice that we really need to get across because stuff like this, like a 30 day challenge doing the rock diet, it's like a fun experiment. Yeah. That's not like a long-term thing. No. It's not like, oh, at the end of that 30 days, then I'm going to finally be like the man I was always meant to be. Right. No. Yeah. I don't even want to do that diet. That's way too much codfish. This literally 36 ounces of codfish every day. Yeah. I imagine what that does to your body. It's just probably, it's tiring. It's definitely done that. We're a bulked up. And the music is exhausting to eat a lot of food, and to really just pack it on and then work out. And then eat. And it's, it's not fun. Yeah. Like I'm sure he was pretty miserable during that process. I've just like scarfing down this food and working out every day. But he's doing it, you know, for a purpose. And it's a limited purpose, too. He's like, hey, I'm doing this film. And I want to be as jacked and ripped as possible. Mm-hmm. And that's the way I'm going to do it. Yeah. I've seen, like, diet plans for athletes, or like high level athletes, like Michael Phelps, when he was doing his swimming. Yeah. Oh my god, he eats a ton too. He eats as much as the rock. Oh, more. Does he? Yeah. I think his intake was more like six or seven thousand calories. Wow. Just because he's training volume is so insane. Yeah. But what's interesting about that is like, it's a different outcome. Right. Like, it's a different desired outcome. It's not a physical based outcome. It's a performance based outcome. And I think that that isn't easier way to go about it than the physical outcomes are. Like, is it performance based outcome? So like, like, how you want to feel? Exactly. Exactly. Um, let me see. What else we got here? Are there, did we talk about common misconceptions or myths? Mm-hmm. Like, are there any that really come to mind where you're like, as bad advice? That's advice like Dr. Oz. I don't know. That's a call of Dr. Oz. He's terrible, right? I've heard he's bad. I don't know. I don't even know. Yeah. No. Not really. What's, I guess, instead of the common myth, like, what's your core tenants of healthy eating? Yeah. Yeah. I definitely have some of those. Right. So whole foods, meaning foods that are not processed. And whole foods should be the vast majority of your diet. I realize that we live in modern society. And avoiding processed foods all the time is unrealistic for the vast majority of people. Um, but 80, 90, 95% of your diet should be unprocessed. How do I identify processed foods? If it comes in a package, it is like the easiest way. If it comes in a package, it's most likely processed on some level. What are you could buy? Uh, Kinoa in a container in a package. You do have to get it home, right? But you could buy it in bulk. Are Kinoa rice is in grains? Are they processed? They're not generally speaking. So like you can find unprocessed rice, which would be like brown rice or wild rice. So white rice is the rice. White rice has the exterior of the grain removed. It's like, kind of both. So I guess, but what is it about the processing of foods? Yeah. So generally speaking, processing will remove nutrients in one way or another. And it also makes it where stuff starts getting added back in. So they remove certain things like the hall in the exterior of the grain, you know, for rice, for example, which removes some of the fiber, makes it impact your blood sugar more. And then taking it beyond like the rice example, when, for example, you take a bunch of nuts and maybe some dried fruit and you process it into a nut and fruit, trail mix bar, right? You almost always add a bunch of stuff into that. Sugar mainly. Sometimes some, you know, protein products, whether they're like little pea proteins or whatever. But it offers the opportunity for things that we shouldn't be eating very much of to come into play. And it removes a lot of what we should be eating more of, namely fiber and vitamins and minerals. It sounds like this is where the minimal aspect comes in because you can certainly have fine processed foods or foods that have been lightly processed that are healthy and good for you. But it's way easier to just say try to avoid processed foods. Absolutely. And you know, whole foods. Yeah. There are absolutely processed foods like, yeah, you're fine. Yeah. I eat them. Yeah. So yeah, minimally processed whole foods, you know, as much as possible. I, I try to encourage people to focus on eating vegetables, like that the bulk of your diet should be vegetables. Mm-hmm. And then like the other things around it, whether there's animal products included or not, fruits should be a relatively small portion of your diet, you know, starchy vegetables and grains should be a relatively small portion of your diet. So vegetables, like we do not eat. Enough vegetables. Um, And by saying having the bulk of your diet come from unprocessed whole foods with an emphasis on vegetables, by default, you're not getting sugar added in there. You're not getting a bunch of, um, artificial colorings and preservatives and stuff that really kind of wrecks havoc on our, What are the top five vegetables always in your grocery cart? That is a good question. Kale. Mm-hmm. We eat an obscene amount of kale. Yeah. Um, cruciferous vegetables are like our go to. So, um, kale, cauliflower, broccoli, Brussels sprouts. Um, those are definitely the top four that are pretty much always in our, in our cart. And then I kind of go beyond from there, whether, um, depending on what I want to make for the, the week. Beats are often in our grocery cart, um, any kind of like, um, carrot or, I've been on a radish kick lately. Like how they're, I like their texture and the crunchiness and the, often spicyness, like the subtle spiciness of them is really nice. So, radishes of all varieties and then, um, like more approachable stuff like celery and, um, or fresh herbs and, built bell peppers, isn't it? Is your diet pretty consistent day to day? In terms of, uh, I eat this in the morning, usually I eat this for lunch. I eat this for dinner, like, and where do you take in, getting creative and making maybe different recipes and exploring? Yeah. So, I typically make similar things when I cook at home. So, oftentimes breakfast will be eggs and vegetables. Um, some permutation of that, right? Um, lunch is often breakfast. So, I do an intermittent fasting protocol almost every day. So, where I generally won't eat till 10, 11, sometimes 12, depending on what's going on that day. So, breakfast is generally also lunch. Um, and then I'll have a snack in the afternoon. Usually that's, like, nuts or nuts and berries, super similar every day. Um, but different kinds of nuts. Some days they'll have macadamia, some days they'll have almonds. Um, and then dinner varies a lot, but I do similar, um, things. So, like, I'll saute vegetables or I'll roast vegetables, and then we'll have some sort of protein along with that. Um, and so, the methods are really similar, which makes production easier. Like, I know how to saute things perfectly. I know how to roast things perfectly. Or burn things as Josh prefers. Um, I'm really good at burning things on purpose. Sure. So frustrating. But they are pretty good. Yeah. Um, yeah. And so, like, we'll do, we'll do fish along with that, like, roasted or, uh, broiled fish, or a roasted chicken, or, um, burgers without the buns. Like, we'll just have burger patties along with whatever else we're eating. Um, so it's really similar production steps. But I vary what I produce with those same production steps. It makes it a little bit easier. Super, yeah, way easier. And then I'll generally have, like, sauces that I'll bulk, make, make, and bulk, and keep in our freezer, so that, like, oh, today, you know, this sounds really good with a pesto, or this sounds really good with, like, a peanut sauce, or a chimitory. And instead of having to make each one of those different sauces to take those, those meals in different directions, at the time that I'm also making the meal, I'll just pull the, you know, container of it out of the freezer and thought out, and, you know, in two minutes, I have that sauce ready as opposed to 30 minutes, and having to also include all of those ingredients into my, um, grocery shopping for that week. Yeah, I think that's the toughest thing that most people have with, with cooking and eating healthy is making the time for it, and to actually, uh, think through what you're going to eat that week and, and take the time to cook and prep your meals. Yep. Um, you want to get to quick questions, and then we'll wrap this guy up. Um, what book has had the biggest impact on your life? I don't have any one book, but I've got a few. So growing up, I read, um, like, the art of motorcycle maintenance, I was in college. Yeah, I did, I started that, but I didn't finish it. It was really good. I was like, when I was, got into it, I was like, I need to get a motorcycle now. Mm-hmm, totally. Uh, when I was a little younger, self-reliance, um, walled in, was a big one. Um, and then more recently, uh, deep work by Cal Newport was a really great one that I read recently that I will come back to for probably decades, like, at least mentally, if not literally re-reading it. Um, and then when I was making the transition, and this is the one that I think is maybe the most relevant to listeners of this is, um, when I was making the transition between, you know, working for someone else and working for myself, it was, um, how to be here by Rob Bell. Mm-hmm. And without, like, diving too much into the messaging there, he, he really helps clarify, like, what's important in life. And for me, that was really helpful in that I was able to say, like, no, you're not just imagining it. Like, this, this life that you're leading right now is really leading to a lot of dissatisfaction and angst and stress that is not necessary. It's like, kind of gave me the, the strength to say, no, it's not serving me anymore. And I need to go in this new direction. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Sometimes it's easy to forget. And we quickly forget what our priorities are and what's actually important. Mm-hmm. Um, what drives you? Mm-hmm. I want to be a good person. Like, it sounds kind of tight, but, like, I want to be a good person. I want to be a good citizen. I want to be a good mother, a good partner. Um, productive members of society. And for me, that means a lot of different things. And it'll mean a different thing on any given day. Um, but I want to be authentic to that desire to truly just be a good person. Where do you go when you're feeling doubt? Mm-hmm. I find solace in my, like, in solitude. I'm really, really introverted. Um, like, almost to a fault. Yeah. And, um, at different times in my life, I've gone to, like, family members or, um, you know, other people with whom I have relationships. And a lot of times that's led to certain good outcomes, but not maybe an ideal outcome. And so now, like, now that I'm 35, I'm kind of like, oh, right. Like, go to yourself first. Like, go inward, which, to me, means like, I have to get away from people. Um, you know, for that solitude. And then, um, from there, then, like, figure out who, in my circle of friends and family and my support network. Like, who do I go to from there? That's great advice. A couple more here. What one skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others haven't? I think I'm simultaneously not afraid to take risks. And also, because that comes from sort of an innate sense of my abilities. Mm-hmm. That makes sense. Um, I'm pretty confident in, like, no matter what I decide to do, like, if it fails, like, I'll figure something else out to do. Mm-hmm. Right. Like, I'm not going to wind up homeless on the street. Like, that's just not an option. Yeah. Because I'm not going to make the choices that would end me up there. Most likely. I'm sure there's, like, some crazy, just so be impatient. Exactly. Insane combination of things. So, like, potentially happen. But it's so unlikely. And the, the other side of that is it's far more likely that I'm able to, to execute the things that I want to be able to do, to lead a good life. And so I'm, therefore, not terribly afraid to take the risks that a lot of people, um, at least in my close circle of family and friends might otherwise be. Two more questions. Yeah. What one thing should people read watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight? Mm-hmm. I have become a really big fan of meditating before bed. Um, that's like that. That's, that's a, none of the above. Yeah. Just do nothing. No. So guided meditation. Oh, okay. At least for me has been really, really helpful. Um, to facilitate sleep, to calm things down, to quiet the mind. Um, and I found that when I do that, my sleep is so much better. And life is easier. Mm-hmm. Sleep well. Yeah. Yeah. And last question, how should people connect with you online? Hmm. So you can go to minimalwellness.com or at minimalwellness pretty much on any of the social media platforms. Great. Yeah. Thanks for coming on the show. Thanks, Matt. If we learned anything from this show, it's that I invented a new word. Dietrition. There was no way I could edit that out. I said dietrition. It's a mix between a dietitian and a nutritionist. And it's also a noun for Matt doesn't know what the hell he's talking about. Um, I hope you guys like this one. I really did. I really learned a lot. If you want to help support the show. If you got some value out of this episode, do me a huge favor. Pause the show right now. Head over to iTunes. Leave a rating for the ground up show, leave a review. As always, you can go to the ground up or sorry, it's not the it's ground up show.com. If you go there, I've got extra videos. I've got the catalog of all the episodes. If you're somebody who just listens to this on iTunes or on your podcast app, then what you can do is you can watch a bunch of videos that I make. I've got an Instagram where I post short clips and inspirational sound bites. Every day you're getting a little hit of inspiration from the different episodes that we do. From the different creators that I've talked to. My Instagram is at Matt Diavella. So MATT, D-A-V-E-L-L-A. And that's it. See you next Wednesday.
