# We bought a house!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJpv5eTqbNU
Go to https://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code MATTDAVELLA. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video ✌️

Huge thanks to Fey & Co for helping us with the interior design on our house! https://fayandcodesigns.com.au/pages/interiors-by-fay-co-1

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 Credits
Directed by Matt D'Avella
Edited by Zach Mayfield & Matt D’Avella
Graphics by Spencer Torok
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, 
**Date:** 2022-11-30

## Transcript
 This video is brought to you by Squarespace. I'll talk more about them later in the video. Wow, look at it. Look at this. All the shit outside that. Nah, come here. Look at this. Oh my god. Holy shit. After eight years of renting apartments together, Net and I decided to finally start looking for house. That meant stepping into the Sydney housing market. And it was, as they say down under, completely cooked. What startled me was just like the real estate, savviness and fluency of everyone. We just immediately felt out about that. The Australian housing market is hard to describe. It's one of the most competitive in the world and ranked as the second least affordable behind Hong Kong. Getting into it is hard enough. But even if you secure a loan, you have a laundry list of challenges ahead of you. Dishonest agents, mind games from other buyers, impossibly tight open house windows, and of course, live auctions. I was honestly blown away when I found out that Australians by houses via auction. Literally like old-fashioned auctions, we have an auction here and there. Hey, have a better, better, better, better. What do they say? But a two-one follow-up on B2I now. Can I say one month, 74? Double zero, triple zero. One month, 50 to cool, one can here and there. I really don't know what to do. I see someone in the back. It's a fucking circus. Noisy neighbors drop in, people watch for entertainment, and crowds of up to 100 people can form. So yeah, we were a little over our head. What were some of the criteria that we were after in a house? Like, obviously, you could have any number of things that are deal breakers. But actually, for us, we had a pretty clear checklist of what we were looking for. So we were looking for a place with charm. So we didn't want something that was like two super modern, but something that felt like it had some character, a little bit of heritage. And then we were looking for good lighting. This is like Matt's biggest thing. So like not too dark inside of the house. And like the aspect of the house's placement had to be like nor facing or facing. North facing, because we're in this other hemisphere. I think probably the biggest one for us was location. In an area that's safe, potentially as walking distance to coffee shops. Closer to the city, at least close to a sense of community. Like, maybe has a local village. Maybe like, you know, few like little restaurants or something. Oh, we definitely wanted like a backyard. We're not talking a massive backyard. We're just talking, but like, can we put a table with a few chairs here in the backyard? Like, that's it, you know what I mean? I think also, we definitely were looking for a three bed. So we had a very short list. Yeah. So running that back, we were looking for a charming three bedroom home, soaked with natural light, with an outdoor space in a walkable area that's not too busy. And after four months of searching and losing one house painfully at an auction, and another painfully in private negotiations, we looked out and placed the winning bid on a home that was perfect for us. And now we're heading over to our house. Excited. I really am excited. It seems like they've done a lot in the last days. So I think it's going to look very different. We've started to do a little bit of construction and renovations before we move into the house. So we've been staying at Nat's parents' place. You know, like how you hold the wheel like a race car driver? This is how he's supposed to do it. No, I know it's how he's supposed to do it. Nobody holds it this steering wheel like that. What do you mean? Everybody holds this steering wheel like, you know, just one hand cool, cool style. Not it, no, what? Yeah. See that? Wow. They actually look cool. Oh, my goodness. This is really nice. I mean, I know it doesn't look that. But we'll, like, this is nice. They look cool. Solid floor. Here we are in our new house. So what did you first love about this house when we first saw it? Oh, it was definitely the charm. But I think, like, the layout and the location. It just takes so many boxes that we're looking for. And we just, at that point, we looked at so many properties. And so we could tell pretty quickly if it was one that didn't work for us. Yeah. And this one just never had any things that we didn't like. This house was literally built in 1890, which um, it comes, it's blessing and a curse. We didn't plan on doing any big renovations from the start. But when you pull up the carpet on a 130-year-old house, hoping to find beautiful hardwood floors, you will be disappointed. Not only did we have to replace the floor boards because they were inconsistent and uneven. When we pulled them up, we found something even worse. Turmit damage. And what we thought would be light cosmetic changes to the bathroom and laundry led to that getting fully gutted. And then, of course, we ran it to some more issues. How you feeling? At least we're right-hand buttwipers. Why but you can't, you can't do it. Okay. Are you filming me right now? Yeah, do you want to explain that? Well, come take a look. So we're at Comprogress bathroom and it's going to be shower screen here. And we're a little concerned about how close the shower screen is going to be on the toilet. So when you sit on the toilet, you're going to be like touching the shower screen. So that's all thinking at least what a right-hand buttwip is. What's interesting is that a lot of people are actually standing wipers. So if you're standing wipers, but you're standing wipers? Well, I think it's like probably a 10-degree slot. This is the perfect transition into my sponsor for this week's video Squarespace. So earlier this year, I set out to rebuild my internet home and I couldn't have done it without the help of Squarespace. Much like our actual home, I decided to completely gut my website and start over from scratch. But unlike our real home, the renovations weren't nearly as painful. The reason that I've been using Squarespace over the past eight years is because they make it really easy to get started. You can drag and drop photos, embed videos, and insert your logo with a click. So now that I've fully designed and rebuilt my website from scratch, let's take a look at how it turned out. So right when you land on my website, you learn a little bit about me. I've included links about my work as well as some social links. I've also got a few other sections on my website that share info about my courses, feature length documentaries. And one of the main reasons I built my website is to grow a newsletter. So I'd encourage people to sign up for my newsletter. I've created a free 30-minute film called Unstuck. When you sign up via this form, you can direct access to the film. I honestly think everybody should have a website. It can help you land a better job, build an audience, and share your message with the world. So if you're looking to get started, you can visit squarespace.com today for free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com slash Matthew Evelett, save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. As you know, when you support squarespace by clicking the link in the description below this video, to sign up for your own website, you're also supporting this channel. So thanks for considering. Wow, look at it. Look at all the shit outside that. That premier, look at this. So we've got a lot of work left to do before we turn our house into a home, but let's take a look at where these renovations are heading. Okay, the royal tour, we're right now you're in the living room. The couch will be here. We'll have a little living room table here. I'm sharing this corner, and then we've got TV right in here. So it'll be like a pullout. A lot of people in the room, you need more space. Well, right into the wall, why? Now, you are in the dining room, and I'm standing on the dining room table. And we'll have six seats, so we can have lots of friends over, but not really lots of TV. And then we're going to have friends. This is going to be storage under the stairs fully. Probably the most exciting renovations we're doing. We're actually thrilled about this. We get very excited about storage. They're going to be like cascading copies, right? So it's like push to open doors, panel doors, and they'll be like five, five of them, which would be nice, and they'll blend into the facade of the stairs. They won't even look like storage until you click it open. Oh, next we've got the kitchen. We're not doing much to the kitchen, but we are putting in like a island. We're putting it in the kitchen, island. This is my favorite door. This is our backyard. There's going to be like a outdoor dining table here, so we can kind of eat our fresco. Underneath the faggola, very large backyard with a humongous tree. We've been told that the lemon-centred gum. You're going to hit my big forehead with that mic. And then this is a sunroom, which we're very excited about. This is going to be my office, which yay! So we get glorious sun in here. It's going to be like my little workman's table. This will be a day-bend here, so I can kind of like working whilst lying down. I'm very lazy. We'll have laundry here, and then toilet here. And it's kind of like a weird placement, because like, these are the doors. So it's weird. Who doesn't love a house with character? You want to try them? Yeah. And then these beautiful glass doors, which again feels very like a Mediterranean-y. Yeah, it's got set. So the team just built the sun floor, and then the floor boards are starting to go into my eyes. That's very exciting! And then this will eventually be a room for the kids, which is nice, and then... Oh, I can't open this. So this is a patio. Oh God, that's worse. A touch to the third bedroom, that bedroom there, which is nice. So it's really, actually spacious, like it's not a balcony. It's a separate patio, which is beautiful, so we're going to have like outdoor furniture out here. We'll have like an outdoor sofa, a little like dining table, and two outdoor arm chairs, which will be nice. Beautiful view of that big gum tree from downstairs. So yeah! We only really have one tree bathroom in this place, and it is some more. Luckily, Matt and I are short people, so that's fine. We'll have like a vanity here, where the sink, obviously, this will be a mirror. Alright, I have a standing in the shower. Okay. Hi there. Hi. This right here is my office. Please come in. Sorry. Right now it's like a staging ground for the bathroom setup. My desk in the corner here, I've got some antique furniture we picked out, shelving unit, trying to figure out the best way to set up the office, so I can film in it every day, but it also feels nice and cozy. Again, love the doors. Nice hard wood doors. Keeps out. Oh my God. I think what's going to be nice is that like this is going to be the backdrop for all of your YouTube videos, like, you know, from now on, from once we move in, which will be really cool. So you can perceive them for? Yeah. And then you guys will see this room a lot, which will be really, really fun. Okay, so this is our last bedroom, which we're very excited about. So the best thing to go here, we'll have two bedside tables, we'll be back in this wall. We're going to put a vanity here for me, and that'll be like, my beauty skin care can do my hair there, just because our bathroom is so small, so it wouldn't be able to have all of my stuff in there. So we'll just do like a little vanity quarter here with a pendant light and a store, which would be nice. And then storage here, we love these ceiling roses. You're up the house, which is very, like, heritage, charm. We think it's beautiful. And then we love this, like, natural light from the skylight here, like, obsessed with these little archways and the beautiful wooden bastards. Hello, it's just really cool to like, like, be in a place that has such a storey, and has had so many lives before us, and yeah, and had a lot of love for society. It's obviously going to take a lot of work. But it's exciting. Like, I've really been enjoying the pracer. Every little update we get, like, every bit of problems. And we've been lucky to have the most amazing interior designer and project manager who has been coordinating all of the contractors. And we just found on Instagram, Henan's Yasmin, from Fay and Cointereus. We'll tag it underneath. I get in the description below. But she services Sydney and Blue Mountains. She could not have done any of this with her. Absolutely, God said. We were really excited at a place that we could mold and obsess over, like, making it perfect for us in our lifestyle. It really feels like we're putting down roots, and we are vesting in our life here, which is really exciting. And it's a place that we're going to live in for a very long time, longer than any place we've ever lived in. And we're excited to make it feel like home. Do you want to say anything else? Any final words? Yes.
