# Ground Up 016 - Become a Better Storyteller w/ Vice's Antonia Hylton
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKZeeoTTCXc
http://www.groundupshow.com

Antonia Hylton is a correspondent for HBO's Vice News Tonight. We discuss the art of listening, how to improve as a storyteller and why it's important to stay informed.

Say hi to Antonia on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/ahylton26
And Instagram:  http://instagram.com/ahylton26

Here's where you can find more from me:
Podcast:  https://www.groundupshow.com
Website:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://fb.me/matthewdavella

Music Credits
Keep Fallin by The Passion HiFi
That Hip-Hop by Diplodocus
**Keywords:** ground up, the ground up show, antonia hylton, interview, podcast, interviewing, storytelling, film, filmmaking, vice, hbo, vice news tonight, 
**Date:** 2017-06-29

## Transcript
 Hey guys welcome back to the ground up show. I'm your host Matt DiVella. Thanks so much for for tuning in for watching for listening I have an amazing guest today. Her name is Antonia Hilton. She's a correspondent for HBO's vice news tonight She covers politics and civil rights. She's incredibly sharp. One of my favorite interviews that I've done in the show and it's her first podcast ever so that's exciting We we discussed a little bit of the politics and civil rights stuff, but but really more so we delve into her path and how she got here I think really more than anything. It's a story of Not waiting for opportunity but of making opportunity of making things happen even when there's no Jop Listing that you want on LinkedIn. She went out and she she found the work that she was passionate about It really really inspiring and I think you're really gonna like this interview But before we get into that I do have a couple quick housekeeping items You might notice that the podcast if you're watching on YouTube it looks a little bit different That's because I don't have any tripods. Maybe asking Matt why don't you have any tripods? That's a good question So I was just out in San Francisco with Josh and Ryan from the minimalist.com We're working on a new project. We're really excited about it and we were in San Francisco and I it was the last city of the Stint for me with them out there and I got lazy I left my tripod bag in the van overnight. That was the mistake because that night I was forced into minimalism with somebody broken to our van and stole $1,000 worth of gear including two of my tripods That was a bummer but I haven't sure it's right good news, right? No because my deductible for insurance was $1,000 so literally lost $1,000 in gear but you know the show must go on I still I'm really passionate about this podcast. I want to keep it going. I want to keep the videos at a high quality But while I don't have tripods for the next couple weeks I will be using stacks of books and t-shirts as a tripod. So That's why the podcast is going to look a little bit different for the next couple weeks On the last episode I sat down with a assistant director and producer Matthew Webb He wrote the book set life about his experience working on huge films like Pirates of the Caribbean Mad Max Tax-all-rich really amazing films His book set life is incredible. I'm buying five copies of that book for my audience I want you guys to Gather some of the the helpful advice from this book How to land your first job and film how to keep it and how to excel I think it's gonna be hugely valuable for anybody who's looking to to one up their game just leave a review of the ground-up show No matter how many stars and I'll send you the book out I'm gonna send it out to the first five people that email me at hello at Matdevolla.com I'll get you guys those books I think you'll like it last episode I announced my mission to interview the rock on this show Duane the rock Johnson and I just got off the phone with him this morning. That's not true. I made it up I haven't yet talked to him but I want this audience to take part in it You know, I want you guys to be here for the journey. So if you have the rocks number if you've got as email address Let me know and We can make some magic happen. I want the rock in that chair The rock. I mean we may have to unscrew the the sides of the chair, but I do want the rock to sit there Let's see. Okay, and finally Last bit of news pretty exciting personal news for me I'm moving to LA. I just got a apartment About a week and a half ago In West Hollywood All of my friends are making fun of me calling me Hollywood now that I made a documentary and so on Netflix Obviously you got to move to LA. It's actually not the reason why we're moving more of a personal decision My partner Natalie's from Sydney L.A. is is right in between there. So that's really the major factor for us moving out there Though I am excited to be be in LA to be around a lot of other creatives in the film world If you are yourself in LA, let me know Love to meet a coffee. You got my email address Hit me up and and we'll meet up and you guys can show me the best coffee in LA because I'm looking to get set up I don't know much about it. Anyway, let's get to the interview with Antonio Really excited to share this with you guys. We'd love to hear what you have to think about it leave a comment on the YouTube video Once you're done watching or listening and now without further ado here it is I'm going to tell you a little bit about the work you do right now and then we can kind of delve back to see how we got here So the work I do right now I am a correspondent for Vice News Tonight on HBO Which is a cool nightly news show on HBO Sort of the sibling show to the documentary series of vices hot for years now and I think the thinking around that was you know people have responded so well to the vices of a gritty style of like getting their story telling And they wanted to now kind of have a daily version of it with shorter stories short meaning like six to ten minutes story So still solid you know like news reporting, but you know you could kind of capture an audience and have them come back every day And so I joined the team in August before our launch on October and it has been so much fun Because vices really a start up anymore, but the team we've creative is kind of like a startup with in vice because We're new and we're kind of figuring out what the fuck we're doing Yeah, and so I got to report like right out the gate on Prison riots. I got to go on the Clinton campaign trail for weeks I've reported from Chicago on gun violence. They let me do anything that's sort of at the intersection of politics and civil rights Those are kind of becoming more and more redundant all the time, but um I kind of felt like free rain to explore which is I'm so so lucky for I'm I'm 23 and I'm gonna be a show and I get to like travel to more states and I've ever been to previously in my life So I'm pretty lucky right now. Yeah. That's pretty amazing. Yeah. Yeah, most people would like work Their entire lives to get to to this place, but but I think that also comes with Imagine it's probably difficult to to Realize you've achieved so much and you're at such an amazing place in your career so early That do you have any like big crazy dreams or goals for the future or is you're like Because it was weird like when you graduated you'd be like yeah, work of advice like kind of creating my own stories and having so much freedom to create The stories I want to make would be the dream. Yeah, when I graduated Just in 2015. I had no idea what was gonna happen. I went to Mike news first 10 days after graduation Like I literally took my dorm room and I moved it into the shitty apartment with like no natural light like the Words shit hole in your city Yeah, you know from New York originally. No, I have family here from Boston. Okay. I didn't know anything about like what neighborhoods were like New York is just hot. Everything sucked. Yeah. I had no friends. I lived in this horrible dark place when you moved in New York Like it's funny when you start looking at places and start trying to figure out you kind of go there And you're like all right. I'm gonna spend a thousand dollars on rent and then you start looking and you're like $1,500 like it goes up so quickly and you're like shit. All right. How am I gonna do the math like how much? You're gonna lose in taxes and you're at the first 15 hundred dollars seems like I can do that with my No, yeah, it's it's very tight when you first move to New York It's but I had a college. It's crazy It's nice that you had a family here, though. I did Like the game you like free furniture and so there you go. I just would not have any more to Yeah, so yeah, you moved you moved here Moved in 10 days didn't know what was going on and I came to Mike and I went to Mike because They were just starting with video at the time and actually everybody was kind of just getting into video at the time and there weren't all the like rules and set you know Like they're not really like view count goals and there weren't you know Nobody had an idea of like what video was gonna look like for Facebook for social And so Mike and all these other places were kind of just throwing whatever at the wall And I kind of saw that as I was graduating reached out to people I knew there Interviewed with Billy Disney who was once on the show. Billy Disney is right and kind of just convinced them like there was no job description available But I was like hey, I entered it all this stuff. I've worked on some documentaries You know, I know a lot about these subjects Let me just like grind for a summer for you and if I do a good job We give me a job at the end of this Yeah And that's how I got into it. So I was doing production first It didn't have a plan to be a reporter Fronting my own work on a show like the show that I'm on now like there was no plan It was like I want to tell stories and know how to tell stories All I ever I've done my whole life is like consume and try to tell stories so I Just kind of picked the place it was gonna let me first like dive into doing all that And so was that Mike for a little over a year Then got the opportunity to come work device and just kind of completely changed And first I really was afraid like I was like I've never been on camera. I like Like I watched the vices stuff and I was like I've never been to the Congo like I don't know if I can do that But you know they like just so throw everyone to show into like people are smart and they You know most of them are old in the night. I am frankly they have more experience But we're all figuring out as we go and and like this learning curve has been so steep and so Just in probably the two months the I'm verse two months. I was at vice I learned more than I may be happily in an entire year of college or like an entire year of doing anything else I think you have to do that you have to throw yourself in situations where you're absolutely terrified and you have no idea How you're going to push through that's when you grow the most yeah, and I imagine You've had some mentors during some of these transitions and how many of those come internally like say at vice or Mike and how many of those are outside for you It's probably 50 50 so I have an aunt who used to be Was doing sort of broadcast news and has reported for a very long time and so as I started getting into doing my own original reporting She was my major outside Source and I would just call I'd send her links to anything I was doing every video I produced for Mike I sent her and was like we just watched this for three minutes and tell me what sucks You know like I don't need you to like compliment me pat me on the back. That's what my mom mom and dad You got people to do that you do me that my yes, man. They're like you don't know your awesome Sparkling videos on Facebook, you know like I have those those peeps like I need to tell me when I suck and she's very good at that That's great. It was awful. Yeah Who is this person? Why did you like you know she just was really straight up that was cool? And then I had internal people like Billy and the awesome thing about Billy as my first boss was that like he is really quirky and he's creative and he doesn't you know Like he doesn't really see himself as an authority figure even though he is a really knowledgeable person You know like on paper is an authority figure We kind of clicked and he was like you have some good ideas Like if you can execute on them like I'll let you go to them like fly like you know we it was more of like a collaborative and Relationship that whole team that we built out we were all really friends who just like every day came to work Being like what stories we want to tell what parts of the country do we want to go to what do we think is undercover Who's perspective hasn't been told we were working first sort of through Liz's plank show Then with Darnell more and a docu series about activist movements and between those two shows one that was sort of You know Liz Planks work is sort of the intersection of like women feminism and politics and then Darnell more is was really race politics and sort of Especially when looking at at that time you know what was happening in terms of policing across the country I mean still is but at that time especially We had so many opportunities then to chase so many crazy stories that people just weren't doing a good job on and All it looked five of us at the time were Like Billy just like weird people who came in wanted to throw ideas on a board and then like figure out how we could get the money and get the resources from like to go do it And so he wasn't a mentor in the like sit down and you know and Tony like these are the steps you take to be successful Or Antonio I can really see you being this role at this company like here's how you get there like Billy's not that Depth person yeah, he seems like the kind of person that you can be vulnerable and front of at least from my perspective It and it's and I imagine working for a company there are people that would feel like they can't necessarily be a hundred percent honest with You know, maybe there has a tations about a project or a story They're making to say I don't know how we're gonna pull this off because a lot of times you have to have this air of like Everything's perfect. I've got everything under control that way nobody kind of faulters in their judgment of you Yeah, do you feel as if at least most of the people that you work with now you can you can do that or do you have to have this Fake it to you make it. There's a little more structure around me. I mean, they're definitely at first few months a lot of Faking it till I made it like I would go out and be terrified One of my first shoot. I'm like tears like heart like gonna fall out of my throat I don't know like that kind of terrified One of my first major packages that I shot and Reported in front it was a story about Gavin Krim and And I mean And I'm not going to the Supreme Court fully or sort of being remanded back right now But his case is sort of the the landmark story about transgender students in the country right now And he's 17 years old younger than me, but I was like he is just You know what he went through in the small town. He grew up in Virginia You know to get back around about his story. He comes out his transgender his sophomore year Tells the school this and first they are fine like go use the men's restroom Gavin We don't care. We'll call you by Gavin and most part his teachers and the superintendent are supportive and then Parents start to complain people start calling into the school and the school board does a complete flip And they decide that Gavin either sort of has to use the women's restroom where they're going to create these Old janitors closets and turn them into neutral restroom basically for Gavin have to use in a corner far away from his classroom As soon as on his own so of course the ACLU gets involved in this escalates up to a Supreme Court fight And he's 17, but I'm like terrified to meet this kid because he's been through more than The vast majority of people have been through in it in just if his short years of life He's just so eloquent so in control of his his story and so clear about you know The injustices that he's faced and and you know how he plans to how he planned at the time to fight his school He's now graduated just a couple weeks ago And I had I mean never been on camera never worked with the producers and shooters I was going into the field on and was just like blown away by this kid So I like rolled up to his house in the middle of nowhere Virginia and I just like was she I was kind of shaking And so there is faking it till you make it you know if you see If you watch that piece you can't see me shake. I'm smiling Gavin and I end up getting along really well And so kind of it all melts away, but there is a shit ton of just being like I need to tell this story. I may not feel totally inside like I'm qualified to tell that story But someone somewhere has given me the opportunity to do it like I'm going to dive in and just like do my best to To make it what it deserves to be and that was very much how I approach that story and And so you know there are people around me at vice who give me structured advice there You know we have people who've been like one 15 Emmys and they were at NBC forever and they know everything There is to know about the traditional news industry, but They I think also have advice just because what advice has been for years now Have this spirit of like We're not going to tell you how to do everything you're going to be thrown in you Have to be responsible for the research for your own reporting not going to like they don't give me interns I don't have people who like give me fact sheets before I go into the field. That's me like I do that So yeah a lot of people do have assumptions about certain programs especially if it's An envy like vice where you're like oh, well, they probably have like 20 writers that tell them everything No, you see when you see anyone in any vice story like they've done that that research They wrote that voiceover that you're listening to like we're not actresses and actors who's show up and other people have Told these stories for us and we just stand there and of like look nice No, we're really working on yeah, which is is incredibly important yeah in terms of telling the story and and Not being funny because at least the traditional news media tends to have that the role or appears to be a yeah Yeah, I won't say all of them There's a little bit more of that or you can get away with that or there's so much more staff around them that you know They don't have to Lift everything on their own but they're just it but because of the resources because of culture at a place like Mike and then it's like vice Like you're going to pull your way if not your way and a half How much growth do you see in yourself between these projects where you go Because I've had very similar experiences where like legit panic attacks before the shoot Where I'm like hyper ventilating and I'm like what the fuck am I gonna do this like I've never interviewed somebody that that's this intelligent or that I'm like just do not feel prepared going into these situations But I'm like I just gotta do it. I gotta go through it or like if it's speaking in front of a Crowd of 200 500 people it's like you just have to do these things and then you the entire day or two before that Event you may just be terrified, but then you go through it and you feel like okay. Wow. Okay. I did it like I feel great having done that But then but then but it also the next time you're not gonna be it's gonna be easier But you're still gonna be terrified. Yeah, like how much growth have you seen in yourself over these few years where you're going from from one to the next and this sheer volume of Time's going through these difficult projects and putting yourself in uncomfortable situations How much growth have you seen in yourself at the step back a lot? I mean, it's it's funny talking about growth because sometimes I stick back And I'm like I've been in the game for relatively five minutes You know, I put it when I talk to some of my mentors We're doing this for decades. I'm like wow. They must think I'm a toddler or something But I know I do see so much growth. I mean Just even from those first interviews where like I couldn't breathe. I was so nervous or you know what it really was It's like I would be having conversations with people that I'm talking to you now and be anticipating the next thing I'd be trying to think like I have to nail this politician on this thing and it's gonna be my third question You know like that that was like where my Right I was thinking like it was a game of chess and some of that is healthy like you want to go in with a plan You want to go in with like things you know you need to get out of an interview or get out of a character Elements of their personality that you want to tease out by by talking to them in a certain way Definitely need that, but you don't want to go in with like So much of a plan that you're not listening Because most of story being a good storyteller actually just requires you to shut up so much of the time Like you just actually need to listen to people you're not gonna tell their story correctly You're not gonna find the elements of it that other reporters other storytellers have missed if you're not actually just Being quiet most of the time in thinking and reacting to what's happening around you And so I learned better how to to listen and I think like literally you can walk My work and you'll see as I'm progressed that I'm listening more and that My questions react more just because sort of naturally like what I hear what's going on around me and not so much like a plan that I came in Or a vision that I previously had for what the piece would be yeah That's my favorite quote is I was I did an interview actually for Mike.com with Matthew Reineman. It was the Mike Fee Yeah, it interviewed him for it because Billy brought me on to that Billy brought me on to that project and He said if your story doesn't change along the way you're not listening and I was like that's like on point and actually It relieves a little bit of stress and tension that you put on yourself Especially having high expectations going into a project you just have to kind of let it go How do you going into an interview? I always feel like especially if you're interviewing somebody that gets interviewed a lot like say if you're going somebody high profile That just sitting down talking with reporters or journalists every day and you want to create a Story and experience for them that's that's different, right? You don't want to just go in and say okay Here's the 10 questions they get asked every time because they go on autopilot and then it's like Here's the scripted can responses how do you get out of that and how do you approach these interviews in a way that you're going to be able to get something That's that's actually genuine and not like the the guys of being genuine. I'd say Probably the two ways in which I I'm able to do that and something like you can't do that with because like they are pros They like they don't show you anything about themselves that they haven't planned to publicly show So sometimes you can't do it But a lot of times, you know, I'll be sitting in a politician's office and usually their staff Let's you in first and you can set up and they haven't come in yet And I'll just look around and no to go through their desk and Not that creepy and I like going through their belongings opening their wallet No, but I like they have all these cute weird pictures of their kids or things that they did when they were 20, you know, I was in a politician's office the other day and I noticed they were all of these like You know, there was a fireman's hat and there were what's a lot of You know It's just small trinkets and and books look related to sort of being a man a man in uniform And so I pick up those little things about their personality man nothing to do with what you're there to talk about But I can just sort of get a sense of like who they are in their private life And then when they sit down and we're biking them before we're rolling I just start asking them about like who they are or that weird thing I saw the strange quote They have in the corner of it don't make any sense to me like can you explain that like Why is that your mom or whatever, you know Kind of call them out like kind of disarm them a tiny bit Because if you can get them to start talking about like when I was a fireman 20 years ago Then once I like turn it on and I now need to talk about something serious and you need to talk and you need to confront them about something that's going on We're also like I wouldn't say that we'd become friends, but you know, I've showed him I'm a human being who has some interest in him as a human being and you know that He can Respond to me and he can Bring up thoughts or he can bring up ideas about whatever situation we're discussing And it can be like a little bit freer and loose, you know like you don't just have 20 minutes to hammer through Whatever the major Trump talking point is for the week like we can like be real for a few minutes at the end middle Start middle and end and that's what I usually try to like kind of Subconsciously or kind of casually show anyone that I interview from a politician to Gavin Grimm I want them to know like I'm a real person here who wants to tell a True story And that means you have the opportunity to if you think that like something something a question I ask you doesn't make sense like say that to me Be like no like you clearly think this but like this is actually let me walk you through why This situation is something like people are getting wrong You know, I love those moments in my interviews where like I'm able to kind of like walk through step-by-step with someone and They're talking me like I'm a real human And not like I'm a screen that they're trying to like get a message to to the outside world via you know and a lot of that requires like age is looking around at their life and finding ways to just be like Remind yourself was like psychologically like they're not like a Chess piece for me to tell my grand story in But also to you know and subtly just remind them like you have a bit of control over this to like We can your you shape what this story is as well and there's a lot of Deliberant and subtle ways you can do that right it seems like it's it's There's a tone that you're trying to set for these interviews is that something that do you have an element of Letting them know that tone beforehand like hey just want to let you know before we get into this interview like if What I'm saying doesn't make sense or whatever we can certainly hash it out or is that something that naturally transpires sometimes? You can't say things like that. Yeah, I mean, you know, I have I interviewed a few weeks ago Sex trafficking survivor and anytime you interview someone who's Very traumatized and it's had a situation that Many people cannot relate to or there's a lot of stigma around it I start any interview like that by setting a lot of I want to call them ground rules because it's not rules that they can't break It's more rules that I'm telling them I won't break You know anytime you need to stop anytime you want to go to your room for a second you need to collect your thoughts like I'm here for as long as it takes you to do this interview. That's amazing. I'm not going to rush you. I'm not going to Like yell at you like I'm listening to your story and I want to know all that you're willing to share with me And I make that so clear and interviews But it's especially important in interviews like that But yeah, even in interviews were like I'm probably gonna be laughing half the way through because like it's like such a crazy or ridiculous situation and like the air in the room is like almost a little bit chummy You know, I'll even say to people like hey, you know like this is not a live show Yeah, you need a sneeze. I'd rather not you I'd rather you not sneeze You know like a really nice thoughts like sneezing like let's keep it going and like I just and then sometimes You will forget that they're like oh like I can take a sip of water. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I can badmise the Sweat my skin. Yeah, I like if I have a sweat must have so I can wipe it off But I'm like yeah, I actually prefer you do that like you know don't like sit there Insta cure because you know yeah, and it allows them to loosen up a little. Yeah, exactly So it's better for everybody when did you did you always know you wanted to be a storyteller and a filmmaker? You know, it's funny. I asked my dad a couple weeks ago. I was like dad like are you kind of surprised about like what I do? You know Do any things like like signals I showed when I was younger But like show that this might be a pat I went down and here reminded me that like from basically since like a talk All I did was tell stories and honestly weren't true It was like you were a patty a lot of a liar You would just come home from school and have like these like magical stories of like what happened to you at school? Oh my god like he actually has a video of me telling him about a leprechaun that I caught in first grade And I explained him in like Really weird detail like how I captured this leprechaun with my friend Where I'm keeping it in my classroom how long it's gonna be like they're just so much in detail Like I clearly had like thought about this story I was gonna tell my dad about a leprechaun that didn't exist. I've never seen a leprechaun I think I remember Yeah, and then came home and like gave it to him in this like 10 minute like the actual coal And he was like so yeah, I'm not I'm not that shocked, you know like you've been doing this your whole life like first They were like magical stories out of your imagination and now you're telling the truth But so it's different but like you boys wanted to tell stories How what age was this the was this a this like literally apparently it's like a talk like Yeah, and then through school what was there any evolution of that beyond Just storytelling to family and friends was there like any yeah bigger stages that you're on well I knew when I went to college That I really wanted to study history and history I think that some people is boring like they don't like reading about things that happened But history is actually being reshaped or you can look at things and just a few years time that Political situation or technological development looks has entirely different meaning From whatever perspective you or place you happen to be looking at it and so it is a new story every single time And Historical retellings are just that person's retelling of what happened so there can be of course And really in different accounts of how one battle happened at some point in time We can't even figure out what's happening today Right, we can barely figure out like what happens in content or the whole of you know like the capital Like we of course don't know what happened 100 200 300 thousands of years ago So I just kind of I think probably was drawn to that because of the same opportunity as I gave me to kind of dive in look for new evidence look for new Perspectives and then like retell something in history As a story that's still kind of true to what people know but also maybe gives them something they They didn't know if they didn't look at before and I'm when I joined the history in science department Which is really sort of the history of science And so what you're doing is looking at Historical events from the perspective of like medicine mental health tech physics whatever and I became obsessed with the intersection of Criminal justice and mental health and psychiatry and I wrote a thesis Sort of all about how the de-institutionalization of mental asylum is should connected to Rise of mass incarceration in the mid-20th century and so like Yeah, yeah, yeah, just your everyday Sunday morning Yeah, like the things I talked about with my friends at the bar. Yeah, um, no So I'm pretty like serious stuff and um, but it was Undercover and so probably the most like And I it almost now I think probably just sounds cliche, but really I think like probably what's helped me Stand out at different points like in school at Mike now at vice Is that a been good at finding stories that are undercover? And so when it was when in the case in college It's you know people haven't looked at how mental health impacts incarceration rates And then sort of what the racial overlays are on that When I went to Mike it was like It would mean just the format which we were working social videos was new and in and of itself But Liz Plank darn old more at the talent that I was working with like We were really ambitious in shooting stories about You know with communities that were undercover About issues that were undercover or in our opinion not properly covered And then at vice I made my name by there I rose from and originally I was an AP when I first signed on device and I'm of course Bonnet and those things happened because I kind of made my name Seeking out stories that could be told in a really interesting visual way and for some reason people have really failed on them So you know, I was able to for prison story get footage inside a prison that prisoners who had contraband cell phones like took on their own You know, it wasn't actually that hard like I just reached out to those prisoners families and I communicated with them And I treated them with respects and then I built a relationship with them and got sources and got media But nobody else had done that nobody for some reason nobody passed and that's in the right way I don't know what's happening in prisons. It's not like there aren't tons and tons of reporters tons and tons of Investigators who would look at prisons every single year for some reason no one had called some of their Parents and talk to them some reason nobody had really sat down with any of the activists who helped them any of the public defenders who were on some of their cases It wasn't that hard, but you know I just sitting for a bit and thinking about like kind of creative ways to get in on a story or get in on a historical event I think has helped me Make some of the leaps that I've made like often people are kind of like you know like you were saying like okay You're 23 do you feel like you've accomplished Like do you have any more goals No, I'm not but I get why people ask me that and I try to answer it by a Sort of explaining that I think maybe it's definitely a mix of like hard work and and finding some of these cool stories and then Look like just happening to be at my get a time when they needed someone like that's a little bit And happening to be a vice when a show was starting where they were gonna let me go running gun it And so I think that's sort of same spirit Has followed me the entire way through I guess literally since I was little being like I'm gonna come up with a cool story to then being in college being like Okay, I can retell what everyone thinks they know about mass incarceration I'm gonna tell them that's they're wrong because they missed this huge element of it um or you know I remember working on a story with Liz Plank about the female orgasm and like people how people you know Just totally don't understand female sexuality. Yeah, no one to be it was like it's not that hard Yeah, and it's like it's amazing It's like this I mean people market to it like sure products and stuff as though like it is like some mysterious Goddess you will never be like you know like some weird things you have to like pray to Conchuria right and you know the whole point like me and Liz were like joking about this in the office A bunch of them were joking about this in the office and we're like let's do a piece about that Yeah, so just kind of being able to take weird things and most people would be like I'm not gonna put a story about like female orgasm on like I don't know Any other nightly news show or something like yeah, let's like throw it out there and see what happens And so I think that spirit followed me literally for my guess when I could walk to to right now Yeah, I think For me and and one of the reasons why I asked that question about like or do you feel like you're done? Because For a long time making a feature like documentary was the end all be all goal for me It was like on my bucket list before I die. It's to do this. So now you're done. You're gonna retire Yeah, and I'm done and then so then yeah, I don't even know I'm doing a podcast now I should have just wrapped it up at that point, but then you like relations. Yeah, thanks So then at some point you You realize and everybody tells you along the way that it's the journey It's the creating of the thing that's the fun part But I think it takes going through it once or twice to actually internalize that and to actually go through it Complete a project that you never thought you could do and then take a look back and but oh, yeah like Like this isn't the fulfilling feeling that I thought that was gonna be there at the end of the road It was the actually making it the good times on the road like the challenges and the struggles that you went through that was actually the fun part But I think it does like for a lot of people especially if you're just getting started out Like you have to kind of go through that experience to really fully understand it and internalize that So and that was your thesis when you were historian major in college history and science That's called so what you did is like a bit of history of science and then also science I took some physics classes site classes like that, but really I wanted to do the history That's I think that's a great example of a way in which people can transition and I don't know anybody who's gone to college That is doing exactly what they set out to do set out to do once they were in college That obviously you're using elements of it and skills that you acquired from that That was kind of like I remember my freshman year Talked to my friends were like I'm going to be an ekonator Then I'm going to go work at Goldman Sachs I was like okay, but a little money But I was like I just want to Love school. I mean, I always have really love learning. I like love reading Don't find being in a classroom painful. I don't find writing essays painful I know that it is painful for some people But not for me and and so I was like this is maybe the last four years of my life I can just dive into books. I actually want to read work on projects. I want to read suck up to professors who do things that I think are interesting You know like this might be literally last four years of my life that I can do that So I'm going to study what I want to study and I'll figure out the job part after yeah, so you thoroughly Enjoy your college experience. Where'd you go? I went to Harvard and It should say I have everybody who goes to Harvard has a love hate relationship with Harvard because you know It is like I've never been around so many brilliant and like we are did interesting people Never had so many resources around me. Harvard has so many resources. They can let you Study and do so so so much I mean literally like they have a program where like if you decide you want to learn a language They have to hire you hire someone to teach you that language. You can find a language in a dark or Then no one's really speaking anymore and they literally have to find they've like promised Students that they'll find somebody teach it to you And every year there's like that kid who just wants to see if like Harvard will really do it so they you know But that's like the culture there and so you love the school and and if you love learning There is no place to be but it's also a competitive in place. It's can be isolating there were some Masters where I was sad or like frustrated a lot or in and that they don't have a great social life for Students there. I mean like it probably hurt the jokes about like yeah like Harvard can't have no social life like it's kind of true The school doesn't invest a ton in social spaces and and and extra well Sort of lighter extra curriculars for for the students there and so I think If you're not careful careful it can be a place that like sucks even so I wouldn't say it's it's perfect Very one it turned to did turn out to be a great experience for me. I don't would never change where I went to school But it's not like Hogwarts and like it's like journey I don't know like it's not like I think it's like back or like you know like There are bad people at Harvard there are rude people over there mean people and there's like You know there's a culture in place that can mean Did if you don't seek really good friends you don't find things that you really love and are interested in like you Could have been a bad place And so I think almost any Harvard students spoke to unless they're like crazy They would tell you they have a love-a relationship with it because there's just no other way to relate to that school It's such a weird place So you're doing history and science and then but then you also start to get some internships in TV and and film type world So what was the first one my first in your ship was actually at a PR firm and I My member and my freshman year I Looked around and they're really word no jobs and I don't come from a family where my parents were gonna give me thousands of dollars Just do they want to put the summer or like I needed to find somebody you gotta work Somebody yeah, so I reached out to this PR firm. They had had a thing up for interns But they only wanted people who were gonna graduate soon I was like so I'm really not gonna graduate soon, but I work really hard I see you have these clients. I know some stuff about that because of what I was studying Like they had like rafion was a client of theirs for a while, so I could do stuff related to science for them And I was like I will just like tweak for them. I will write things for them. I'll do like whatever you want me to I would bring you coffee like Can I work please And they let me come in and they were and they told me like when I went into the office They were like we really don't hire people your age. So like Relating you come and like take a peek around, but like you're probably not gonna get the job Yeah, I was like okay. Well, I'm still gonna like try really hard So I just like introduce myself to everyone in the office Try to get to know what they do try to see like intersections of what they do It's like what I could possibly offer them as a what I don't know 18 19 year old at the time And it worked out like they called me a couple of days later I'm like actually like you can't intern for us and we'll be in ten dollars an hour. That's great So I was so excited But that's kind of how it then ended up working out for like the rest of my career now I like every job or internship I got like there was no Like there was no sign-up. There was no online posting for it I just kind of harassed someone until they were willing to give me the opportunity so the next summer I joined starfish media group which is a production company based in Chelsea and kind of worked across and laying things from like little projects for CNN docs um to like I don't know almost sort of like marketing type materials for the production house itself to like little things for HBO real sports I was a little bit all over the place, but it was again a situation where I like kind of begged to just come on and like be that person who you can call at 9 p.m. and send somewhere to go do something and like I'll do it if you just give me a couple dollars So I like did I did that then I worked at NBC the summer before senior year And that was a little bit more about like a traditional like frankly tiny bit a little bit of stuffy experience of like being in an office Wearing a little bit like a suit every single day. Yeah. I was like in little kid heels and slacks and stuff Wow, um, then you know, it was like okay, I learned a lot there, but I think probably the right place for me We when I graduate is somewhere that's like up and coming doesn't have so many rules I'm gonna have a little bit of a steeper learning curve people will actually include me in meetings and let me be a fly on the wall And that's then I went to Mike, but and Mike you did was there a job posting No, that was really no way bothered somebody there. Yeah, Billy didn't put up He was looking for an intern. Yeah, I emailed some of the company who I knew and a little bit at the time like they weren't a not even my friend and um and I was like hey I've worked on these things I went to Harvard Yeah And Billy brought me in for an interview and I actually showed up to that interview in a black suit because I had no idea what I should wear Yeah, well, that's the thing right you always dress up. Right. I did it. I didn't And Mike got to I remember once I then got a job like Billy Regina delay who's like head of video at genius now But it was working with Billy at the time like they were like shitty on me They were like a bunch of things. You came through the door in a black suit in this interview because like they were I think Regina was wearing Air Force ones and like these like billowy Basically pajama pants Billy was like in the he'd like the same t-shirt he wears every single day. Yeah, so like you know I looked like a fish out of water sort of wasn't a fish out of water But again, I kind of just like pledged with them like made my case and then they hired me. That's amazing Yeah, and because I My assumption was that going into this you would have had some of that production experience because Mike calm is such a A small team and I don't know how big their team is now, but that's It started out with like two three people. That was the fourth verse. You were the fourth person. Yeah, and then so then it's kind of like everybody has to have Roll in in terms of like You're trying to hire people that are unicorns that can kind of do everything. Yeah, so you have What did you bring to the table right away and since you didn't have a lot of the hands-on production experience? Yeah, right? Kind of basically got the learner a PA intern at all these places. So I hadn't I'd been shooting for them I was like gonna shoot something for HBO real sports You know like they didn't let me touch anything of any importance, but What I did as I brought Billy Regina and the and it was Sam Thonus who was on the team at the time too I think he's now at the outline was at Bloomberg after right? Yeah, and it also it seems like a very small world Because you're even talking about CNN docs and like I think Billy recommended me some video over there And it's like wow But yeah, it was literally those three people and I brought them stories So like what I had was my stories So I had ideas I had Sources I had places I wanted to go I had like real things that someone could execute on go out in the field on and do and so yeah I wasn't gonna be like the greatest shooter all time I you know hadn't done a ton of field producing so I think that's probably why they were looking at me It's skeptically at first, but I think then I just sold them on the ideas that I had and I think they saw that At least at first I sort of again like this intern figure who set up a ton of stories that they Launched and went out on And for that reason alone, I think they thought that was valuable that like I I think probably the hardest thing to do is to find the stories and do the research And also communicate it properly with the people that you're speaking with right? And I'd saved them time So I'd done the pre-production on it like I'd actually made some calls. Yeah. Yeah, that probably blew my way I hope I know I think maybe But I knew I knew myself. I was like, okay, don't have them as to offer to this team that clearly needs people to wear a lot of hats So like what do I have okay? I have the ability to contact these people and I have cool ideas like let me see if I can Like sell them on my my my my brain that was really that was really it So yeah, I tricked them and hiring me nice and Yeah, um the rest is the rest is history It's all about the balance between relationships your health your wealth your you know personal well being and work and all There's so many different levers that you're constantly tweaking and pushing because they're constantly out of balance Like I don't think I've ever been a point in my life where I'm like financially stable and healthy and Relationships are perfect and everything's perfect. Yeah, there's kind of you always have to be tweaking and reassessing Yeah, I mean people always have that they show you that triangle that's like You're Working really hard or or getting good grades if that's a student you have a social life and you're working out And you can only have two of three like you're taking care of yourself You're doing really well at your job or school or you have friends I don't think you really have to choose just two or three like I I'd say I've like gotten okay at it like I'm boxing regularly Like I have a crazy job where I'm traveling right now Sometimes I'm gone more than half of a month so New York is almost like my my apartment's like my hotel room that I stay in When I'm in New York it doesn't always feel like home some gone so much but I Kind of I learned to teach myself but taught myself how to like Just force myself to catch up with those people force myself to go out Build time whether it means like I'm gonna get up an hour earlier to just like do a little bit of yoga in this hotel room Like I do you just have to be kind of disciplined like making a balanced life it requires some discipline I think like it doesn't either's no point at which you wake up and you're naturally like you've figured it all out I am a successful business woman and I Super fit to get that easy a million friends and I'm rich Don't wake up and that happens to you like success requires some level of discipline and it doesn't mean being like a Type-A anal and sufferable person but I think it does mean waking up and being like All right, like I won't feel good about myself if today I don't make 30 minutes to have lunch with that friend who I can escape the office with they catch up with a little bit today Like maybe it'll be a little tight on that project. I'm trying to do but like for my own like mental health Just like when I get home like it and feel good about myself like I need to do that. So I'm gonna do it I'm going to like sneak away to that workout class I have left vice in the middle of the day and like gone and went down to come back because because that's what I need to do It's probably more important to do that and you'll be more productive by doing yeah, do you find that in terms of your Your health and and eating healthy and and exercising I find it to be very challenging on the road and I did I just did recently I've been traveling a lot lately probably not as much as you but I did It was a week it was it was actually only like a three or four-day shoot between Portland and Seattle And I was like experiment. I'm gonna eat healthy every single day and I'm gonna exercise at least once a day And then I did it and I felt better doing it But then I just was in California for 10 days and I didn't do any of that A terrible I had like hamburgers cheese burgers like all this disgusting food and I didn't work out And so it's a challenge to to keep those habits up when you're on the road. Yeah. Is that something you generally keep up? I tried like I'm so I'm Decent about me like okay, I might like last week. I was in middle of nowhere southern Illinois It was a hundred degrees every single day and I was saying a motel and I didn't didn't have a gym surprise The local grocery store was a dollar store so I was eating to TV dinners every single night But you know I would just do little things like okay. I'm gonna circle around this motel like I don't know a million times just like I did like a power walk I'm gonna do some push-ups in my room. I'm gonna do whatever I can to just feel like a little bit a little better But yeah, there are elements of that you don't have control over like I can't help that the Every like for 10 mile radius everything is fried you know Some of that I can't control But I do try to like I know that I'll feel Better if I just take a small act every day to take like a tiny bit of control of my situation It doesn't have to be perfect. It doesn't have to be a bougie equinox experience God love that That Williamsburg is like yeah, yeah, I'm not the one that's where I am. I'm at the we were So I got a whole foods every day. I go to the equinox and yeah, it's like I'm part of the problem. I am part of that pro yeah, but I also love it Like I'm not the one that's like complaining about gentrification even though I am the the biggest part of it Right, I'm like let's insert you like put on that keels lotion It wouldn't actually like Exactly Right, and so you know No, but you know, it's the worst about that block is the fact that that like 10 people every day will ask me if I want to sign up for their program And it's like What do you say like I got a point worth being mean and then I was like wait man Don't like this happen. It's so I talk about this actually all the time people at work with because we'll like walk by there I get lunch or whatever and someone will shout at you and be like do you care about gay rights? No, be like I do and we're on it. I don't want to sign your position And you like then feel awful like but I do and I should stand up for it I told someone I didn't care about kids They said you care about kids and I was like no, I don't and they're like great So you want to sign up for this right and then you kind of feel dirty after Yeah, but like also they ambushed you It's not it's not fair. It's not fair. I don't know I get it though like they're they're hustling. That's their job like they need to hustle me like yeah. I'm down for that like I sure you know I could see a sedering which like I'm that person but like Yeah, I've come back and I'll do a smile in a no thank you and I do it early enough that they know Like they have to know that there's just regular I have a system I put in my headphones as because I know the block radius where that happens So I like put my headphones and I'll be like jam and like just see me like so Like whatever my new favorite song is like they feel uncomfortable approaching You know what I'll do as well is I'll find people blockers and I'll just like hide behind somebody So we go up. Yeah, it's easy for a woman to do that a woman who's also barely over five Yeah, yeah, you can just like sneak around Yeah, man the challenge is a modern life and Williamsburg Yeah, so Where were we? We were talking about health and taking care of yourself for your yeah, that's throwing yourself into stories Yeah, you know what I give myself a little bit of credit sometimes where I know that Sometimes if I go away for 10 days I may not work out exercise, but that's okay I'm just gonna give myself that break and say when I come back I'll get back into the routine Because I find myself growing up Maybe this is my Catholic upbringing, but just so much guilt like I just feel guilty about everything My mom is a Cuban Catholic. Yeah. Yeah, it's not easy. I am confirmed. I taught CCD for three years You taught CCD. Wow, that's next level. Yeah, it was next level. I didn't I was I was a part of CCC CCD, but I didn't teach I did it. I taught it Try to run that thing Oh my god, you know, yeah, when I'm home still church every Sunday So can you you talk about religion at work and then probably politics it's such a big part of it most people at the office They can't talk about this stuff, but you have to talk about it. Yeah, I mean my job Requires so many difficult conversations like I will one hour be talking about a sex Trafficking victim the next hour be talking about the way Somebody's personal politics is influenced like a bill that they've introduced and so Yeah, being a reporter is having uncomfortable conversations all the time in a way that's that's weird Most professions like you don't go to you don't know your regular if you work in I don't know finance or or global what where health there's something health care You don't show up to the office and like announced how you feel about an abortion bill You know you it's inappropriate to talk about Donald Trump all day But that is my job I am trying to think thoughtfully about those things all the time and you know It's been tough about it, especially the past couple months sort of census election and and with sort of the political climate right now It's been like I leave work and I go and I meet my friends for drinks or go out to dinner or something And my friends have had like a pretty fun regular day We're talking about light things working on their projects and like now they're joking about stuff and I've spent the whole day thinking about something like Maybe really disturbing frankly or or really sad or something like horrifically racist event or something And it's really hard for me to turn off. It's hard for me to like go and then like laugh about Kim Kardashian After I've like come back from a shoot where I The shoot I was just on in Illinois It's been five days in a community where Sort of a group of white mostly men had an bezeled money out of a Public housing fund that was supposed to serve mostly poor and black people and Then we could these people who are now being evicted from the homes because they're in such bad shape. They can't live in them um and like Just sort of seeing like how Terribly those people have been treated coming home from that and then like meeting my friends to go out that like Thursday evening It feels really weird and that's something about my job. That's one of the hardest days on my job that haven't figured out yet is like How I can separate how my job makes me feel and and not let it bleed into Everything else in my life like not be that person who shows up to parties and is like you shouldn't be laughing because today D.C. You know what I want to do So like I'm trying and then but in my head it's there and so That's really been something and then of course, you know like I'm also a female reporter I'm a person of color and so there's like this tension of like Trying to take myself and my own experiences out of what I'm reporting on and to be neutral There is the tension of trying to not You know what I've learned then while I'm reporting and naturally as a human being gonna be affected by it Not letting it then bleed into other people but it is it's a lot and you feel like I wish there were more people doing Stuff like this if I could turn to and talk to and they wouldn't find it weird. Are you allowed to put your your personal Spin on and not spin but your your own personal touch to it? The job does require like trying to be I mean no human is perfectly objective all the time So you know nobody's crazy enough to think that you're gonna be like that 24-7 And in the office like I know who most of my colleagues voted for I know like what they think about certain social issues whatever We naturally we talk about the things and we're allowed to be human in the office We all go crazy if we could be But you are in your work any single project you're on you really you have to try to take yourself out of it because it's not about you And you know when you are an on-camera reporter you have to be extra careful about that It's really not about you. You're not trying to make people pay attention to you in this story like you're a conduit Through which other people feel they're at this story they're in this location And so you have to think about yourself as that and not as the story Was there ever a time that you did a story that changed your personal views Yeah, I all the time I've never I again I think like the quote you were saying before like if you go out and a story and you leave And you're like that is everything I thought it was going to be those people are all bad or good in the ways that I thought they were going to be you did that story wrong Nobody is black and white no story has a single villain I haven't yet done a story with it's like really one person who orchestrated everything that went wrong It's not like that's not like a Disney film Life isn't like that so I I think that you know It's like a constant reminder to Pull yourself back in the situations which is some of you know like I was saying before like why you try to disarm people Why you try to remind them that you're human because you are also reminding yourself then that like This is not a canvas on which like I am painting a story. I am like foraging I am hunting for like what the best version of events that I can kind of recover and tell here And I that's the spirit which I come like I'm not the creator of of these this Like the of the story. I'm not the person who like I don't own this But I am the person who's like here and trying to discover it and through that helping other people discover it And that part of that is constantly like literally in your head saying things like You like remind yourself to be neutral reminding yourself that like you know Sometimes like I have when you especially on the campaign trail If you have a story that I've done like people have shouted racist things at me Actually when I was at Mike I did a story with Billy wasn't on this shoot, but To the dp so you're working with and a man off Screen called me a colored person It's just like not a term you're supposed to use anymore no and I was just like so hurt and jarred by that But like I had a job to do and I couldn't like I'm not gonna you have to make some Choose your babbles you have to decide like this isn't like I'm fighting I'm gonna have right here right now I also need to understand maybe that person Is living in an area of the country where Conversations around like the right way to talk to people right way to approach people of color He probably doesn't get to have those two often so like let me step back from like the Liberal rage of like New York or if someone said that to me on the subway probably 10 people would stand up You know, but like and now I'm in a place for like okay Let me think about like thoughtfully and manage the situation and so I have to again remind myself like this I'm here and it's not about me and it's not about like how I'm feeling I just need to like do my work At the end of the day like you do remember who you are you do feel at some type of way about things that you've seen or that happened to you or what maybe they those things mean for you and It's hard And I don't have like an answer for it. That's one of the things I talked to my mentors about all the time is like How do you deal when someone says something sexist or racist around you? But you have like a reporting job to do and you can't you don't want people to like I don't want to ever be like that black female reporter. I want people to recognize me for my work Not like who I am or what my work means because of who I am. I just want my work to be really good not that who I am Doesn't play a huge value in and doesn't affect the stories I find because it definitely does I mean you just look at the stories I tell you can't help but see like a little bit of my sort of personal and cultural influence in it but at the same time Again, it's like it's I'm not trying to to overlay that on top of on top of my work. So I'm always asking my mentors friends in the office like how did how did you deal with that situation I mean came home like how did you decompress and I haven't yet found a good answer Yeah, I'm not sure why study came out the other week about how like journalists drink more than most people really Yeah, and Might be what I because it's just like are thinking about things and not compartmentalizing yeah, and not taking a break from it and it should be yeah Exactly. Well, I imagine it's it's always from one sort of the next and I've I so imagine you don't do a lot of fluff pieces You're not doing stuff. That's just like and now the lighter side of you know Yeah, I mean we try to do fun stories. Yeah, and I mean I've done quirky stories. So to this story about the band the HBCU or Historically black college that Performed for at Trump's inauguration and the controversy around them and it was oh, I think it's all that yeah Yeah, it's I mean it's a low-stake story and that it's not a life or death story like nobody was going to be Harmed physically for what happened, but of course there's this huge uproar a ton of other Black universities and and groups Organizations you know reached out to that school. We're like what the hell are you doing like how could you go perform at this guy's inauguration like you're embarrassing us Like represent your people whatever those kinds of things and these students were like, you know I've never been to DC. They were stoked Yeah, look I like I don't like Trump that much, but like I've never been to Washington DC You guys have never let me travel like I need to go. I need to do this It's not about like me trying to represent all black people in the US like can I just represent me for an afternoon and go do my performance And that was a lighter story and story that I had a lot of fun with because I was just like on a college campus like Watching these girls look amazing dancers like get ready for a performance. This is the biggest stage They were gonna be on they didn't care they would have danced for whoever yeah, they just were like so excited to have that opportunity And like seeing them smile and like giggle and whisper together and like kind of freak out was so cool Seeing them like so Diamonds under their little outfits on their own with like their own money, you know That was a lot of fun and so I do get to do stories from like oh my on college campus again Yeah, I'm kind of a kid like I'm laughing with these kids I'm not taking myself too seriously. I'm not here to be like and why did you? Yeah, I am gonna ask them to have questions like make them reflect a little bit But like I'm not here to like nail them to a wall they're 19 so I do get to do that and vices is just especially the nightly show is really trying to infuse more of that spirit But yeah so much of what we do is like because undercovered stories are usually the stories that are hard to tell because They're dark because something awful is happening because a lot of people are turning away from it and Vices try to make a name for itself on chasing those stories So yeah, there are sometimes where you watch episode you're like, I'm not crying Yeah, and there are days where I walk by our control room and I'm like And I have to walk it away because just like what the images on the screen are just Of dealt enough today. I can't look at that also Like I need to it's struck myself in this situation. So yeah, there's it can be a lot It's gonna be a continual balance. I imagine of yeah, I don't know if this is the right quote, but it's it's something about Strong opinions or strong convictions held loosely which I think That more and more that's how I feel Especially with like political views or anything like that where I'm like listen I'm coming into this with a bias like any conversation my dive voted for Trump So to have a conversation with my dad Although I would say he's he's not very Extreme on on the right wing side like he'd left a voice message I don't know if I still have it, but he's like Matt you Matt the roll assholes I don't give a shit the whole assholes and I'm like yep, that they're all So but then to go into conversation with him or anybody else and to not already Have all these judgments and ideas and I think what helps too is to if you're talking about policy Most people have no idea and I'm not even good with policy Yeah, but if you're like art so what are the policies that you don't like or that you don't like about Hillary or Trump or anything like that And they kind of changes that they really show does that so well I mean they send those correspondence out and they're like So what's the difference between the Affordable Care Act? No, bomb a care people are like well, Obamacare sucks because of this, but I like the Affordable Care Act for the Everybody's got opinion right everyone has an opinion they don't totally know all the reasons why they have that opinion or the facts required to like get there to format properly, but Americans definitely have a lot of feelings right now. Thank you and I mean one of the like major I have a lot of friends. I've a sister who's a teacher Both my parents are professors one of my best friends is a teacher and Brownsville here in Brooklyn And one of the things I just talked to them all the time is like wow that we're really in an education crisis in the US It's like a critical thinking and sort of you know people I don't know if it's that they are reading and aren't necessarily like Comprehending everything but It does feel like What we've learned and I don't just mean from this election cycle, but just in general over the past couple years like People seem to have a lot of opinions, but not entirely understand actually how they got to them and And be willing to do some of the Investigative work to figure out you know like what do they really believe like who should they actually throw their their weight in their support behind And I think you know just like early education plays a huge role in like later shaping our electorate and so I think there are a lot of people right now in those spaces thinking about like oh shit Like what can we do to bring politics into the classroom to bring like policy literacy Like the ability for for young people to like understand and and digest what any like Healthcare bill means Break it down for them in a way that's digestible for young people, but just start getting them like Comfortable with those issues that when they're in their 20s It's not like a thing they're afraid of and then want to like Shirk away from and probably just are gonna go with what their parents decided to do like how can we get them more actively Engage the audience that listens to the show or watches it Probably has seen minimalism and their their fans of simple living yeah, and even in the documentary we interviewed with a lot of people who They just cut out all media and and they're just not interested in it and there's people like Tim Ferris who Say that they do not Watch politics they're not interested in it. They don't watch any forms of media But they will go out and Before and they will vote but they'll go out and ask a few of their friends who share similar views or who are in tune as they Hey, who do you think would be the best person to vote for? Yeah, I'm curious. Do you have advice for people who are? Like that who are just happier without Media journalism stuff some a little bias. I obviously want them to care about journalism My livelihood depends on people caring about journalism. Hopefully, but I do get it like You know if you even just have one of these like the AP Downloaded you're getting pushed notifications all day long that can really like screw up your psyche They can make you panicked about things that maybe aren't like Materializing as fast as the pushed notifications make them seem like they are and It's a lot that can weigh down on people every day and I get why people like React to that by being like no, I'm deleting and need to detox from technology and social media right now I don't want to be on Twitter. I don't need to see Trump's tweets whatever I get it and so I don't really judge people for that I think there are a lot of people who aren't or have been angry the last few months that people who didn't Read or didn't do their own research or just call their friends and ask you to vote for I think there are people who are angry at them who are kind of like screw you You voted for the wrong person or screw you didn't care enough for you Thought you didn't need to go to the polls or whatever because you wanted to be in your little like fish tank comfortable in your environment I don't feel as viscerally mad at those people because I understand how Personally like harmful upsetting some of the news can be Because like I sometimes compare like deal my with my own stories But I mean I of course would say that like even if it's just picking one way in which you consume it like you want to be that guy I'm still gets the paper every day and you like highlight little things you you like don't like or want to come circle back to Like figure out a way to understand what's going on like I mean It's just it's so cliche or or I feel obvious to say but like knowing what's happening and having people who are doing a good job of uncovering What's happening in your country in the world around you is crucial to your democracy Like you can't have a function democracy people do not Have information available to them if they're not holding the people in power accountable if they're not Showing up to vote if they're not showing up to town halls and asking questions and pushing people who represent them to better represent them Yeah, it can be a lot and you do not need to be on Twitter Facebook Instagram We do not need to follow all of your representatives. You don't need to be like sucking that information all the time, but I am afraid of a world in which like everyone is so oversaturated With the exhausting news cycle that they pull back instead of fight harder and That will only make the world a scarier place. I think and so it's a tough thing to answer because I I obviously am like deep in it. So I'm and I'm biased because it's my job so I'm like read it all Yeah, better read the New York Times Fox News Washington Post every thing It is a funny balance though, right? Yeah, that that there is so much now like you said it's so oversaturated That people feel like like that's it. I'm just gonna drop everything and that's where a lot of the the minimalism movement comes in is Especially with consumption is that people are buying and have more stuff than they ever had before at the average house There's 300,000 items in America and it's like At some point people are like no, I don't want any of it But I completely see where you're coming from and I'm somebody who who has gone on the detoxes before and now is Lightly mediated and I do find my sources on things, but that the one challenge that I've found and especially see with other people Is that when it is coming from Twitter Facebook and all these other social sources? They are so biased and people are like oh, I talked to somebody who said some of it's fake Like some of it's legit immediately. Yeah, and yeah, and then but then some people will say, oh, I you know Twitter I find is a really great source for me to get like unbiased information and I'm like But like everybody you follow you chose to follow and they probably have the same leaning You chose your own chamber or exactly which is like that to me is scary. So how do you have an Unbiased Influence and so if I'm going out and and obviously you could get into the specific sources that are reliable, but you know You know, is it going to CNN and Fox News and vice and like is it having a mix of them? What's the best way? I would say mix of them You know obviously vice is this great you should watch and read this But I mean I read bright bar all this every day too Because even if it's a source that you don't You think it's kind of like it's almost like hate reading for you like it's maybe it just so represents like a perspective You don't want anything to do with you should probably at least take a peek at it sometimes because it'll make Things that happen clearer to you because there is a whole part of the country that doesn't think anything like you and And you should value that and not want to just shut those people out you should try to read the sources that they turn to I mean honestly sometimes I click on things on Facebook that I know are fake just to be like oh this person that I went to high school with Like I actually respect it or it took classes with like oh, they just shared this article I see on that source. It's like not a real new organization But like let me read this so I can understand like why how do they get there? How do they find this source? Why do they trust it and I read it? I'm like oh god and and and it sort of jolts me back and remembering how important sort of the work that we're doing right now is is because There is such sort of a a literacy problem and there there are people are having trouble distinguishing between the news So I think you know like honestly the major Traditional there's a lot of things that like cable news and some of those places are doing wrong And no news organization is perfect nobody gets every single story precisely correct But there are the classic sources that are are really reliable in New York Times You should read the New York Times page for page every single day Or at least several times a week or you should sign up there. They have a newsletter Sort of they like Monday updates or weekly updates and stuff like that You should just like it the very least like glance at that every single day sign up for some kind of newsletter That's gonna send you a couple things to read every day from a couple different sources You know If you're not somebody who wants to be like thrown via Twitter 50 article links all day long of like things for you to rage read like like watch a nightly new show Doesn't have to be in bison tonight. They'll be are the best Watching at least you'll like spend 30 minutes just like getting a little taste of what's going on Because something will probably spark your interest and then you'll go find out a little bit more about it But I really think that like a world in which people have like turned off from each other and right now social media is the medium It is the media of which you can find out The most Usually find out about what's happening on the corner across the country from you like if you turn it off completely I think you're doing yourself and you're doing your country a little bit of a disservice And so fine ways to turn off like I have found me in Cuba when I go there I can't even get on internet regularly if I want it to I think I'd avoid it like I had kind of enjoy being like whoop airplane mode for a week Here I am I'm really investing in my family. I'm doing my own thing. That's awesome Then I come back and I catch up. So I think it's it's building out time But like you have to stay engaged with your democracy. I don't know how else to put it like Don't let yourself like become one of those people who's complacent and doesn't care What do you think are some of the the biggest issues that you're gonna be focusing on and that people should focus on over the next couple of years I mean there's so many I mean one of the things I think people should in general just sort of be watching is how the federal government is Changing I mean the current administration I mean just in simple ways like the literally are not hiring people who typically have jobs We're seeing people decide and turn down opportunities in government that are usually pretty prestigious and You know competitive and sought after This should have a shrinking of of the power there of the control And I think people should keep an eye on that just in a general sense like when you hear that There are tons of roles open in an agency You it may sound to you at first like oh, that's efficient. They've like cut costs or whatever But maybe think about like what those people were what those jobs were there for and like what they were supposed to do I mean health care and people should be tuning in and trying to and calling their representatives right now I'm trying to understand what's going on in that space and I think we're likely to no matter what happens Like there's going to be a major change in health care in the country right now. So pay attention to that and if Effects you in ways that you don't like speak up think about like the small ways in which every day You can you can engage on that or you can don't donate to an organization that does something In that in your opinion is positive in that space You know because things are changing rapidly. We are sort of in an unprecedented time and so I think you know You don't again have to be on Twitter 24-7 watching You know, everybody tweet and fight and in their echo chambers all day long, but like you know Engage, I don't get very political on the show Yeah, not yet not until today But well, I'm trying to keep my personal opinions out of it because again. That's my job But really it like I mean I have friends all across the political spectrum and just everything I say to them is like look You don't have to be like deep in it loss of the sauce like I am like just Care though. Yeah, can I ask you a question about I've been following Dave Rubin the Rubin report. Do you know that show? Yeah, and I don't follow it regularly Yeah, so he talks a lot about the regressive left I'm sure it's something that you've Looking into or at least yeah, I don't know if you've done any stories about it How do you feel about That that term and the the direction the left is is heading today. Um, you know, I think I Sometimes I I wonder if those terms are like new only because the term is there and not because like those people weren't there before You know We are seeing some interesting stuff happening on the left in terms of they're being A rising voice on that side that like really is demanding in some ways like kind of this like political purity like they really don't Any more have patience for Progressive politicians who maybe are a tiny bit more center or who don't check all the sort of Classically left boxes anymore. I think that they're sort of in impatience. There are courses are the people who you know are often sort of Part of that Bernie Sanders crowd who I think like Feel you know Almost vindicated by what happened because not that they wanted a necessarily in most cases to see Trump win But that their election proves that the issues that they were talking about the populist sentiment that they were Feeling and trying to get more politicians to to to pay attention to the like they were correct because of who they saw one And now hoping to reshape the the Democratic Party to pay much more attention to them. Um, I don't I don't know though. I think like there are and every political aisle there are people who Twist facts there are people who are Maybe not so They're like showman, you know like they're out there they're like Unwilling to hear anyone from any other side. They're showing up and they're causing Problems in public spaces not because they have like a real point that they wanted to debate with people but because they're like They're to fuck you and like there are people on both sides of the aisle that do that at the same time though like You know when people are talking about sort of the the campus When they're talking about this on college campuses right now and they're saying things like oh like you know These snowflakes students they can't hear and culture say anything without like You know crap in their pants. There's something like I think that is really I have a tough time with that because you know like Free speeches and You have the right to say whatever you want but you also Other people have the right to Dole out consequences to you if they don't agree with your actions like people don't have to When people you know, I think like around the PC conversation right now people say like You know kids can't hear certain terms anymore without like Freaking out and like or you know people are getting fired because they one time used to word That's not socially except a little anymore and I think people are seeing that as a sign like we're becoming too sensitive or Whatever it may be but The truth is that like you have freedom of speech to say what you want But everyone else has the freedom to decide that they do or do not want to associate with you because of who you are or how you made other people feel And I think that there's some air of Condescension there's sort of this air of like wanting to excuse behavior that like is exclusionary that is Sometimes races that is sexist and sort of hide behind the veil of free speech and and There's now sort of on both again both sides people who are like Provocative and trying to like sort of self in a self absorbed way like make a name for themselves by Kind of fabricating these situations in which those like two groups of people who like would very obviously like hate each other and not want to be in the same room together You know, are like gonna come to ahead and make headlines and so Again, but again, I don't necessarily think that like people who felt those way did that those ways didn't exist Previously like and and so I find terms like that sometimes interesting because I think they make it sound like certain Populations exist this now, but they didn't a few minutes ago Right, or like that you couldn't also say they were aggressive right that that there is two sides to that point I mean, I guess we now have the term all right short, which is essentially the same right, right? So, you know, the term is there But like I mean I've been on the internet my whole life Like there's nothing about the alt right right now like I didn't read when I logged in to play like City of heroes hero games when I was little like I literally had people like Not they wasn't Pepe memes, but like you know people were saying that that sentiment was there like there's nothing new about a lot of that like Yeah, they played a particular role and like I guess the political stage this year that they haven't before But like people like that in the year the whole time like they were on the right there are equally Destructive people on on the left and I don't I don't know that like Sometimes I'm like wary of using those terms just because like I think they give some people in pressure and like There's like a whole new crop of people that like previously we'd never seen before and I don't know that I believe that And I think the free speech is a really interesting and pretty relevant topic today It's interesting because I will talk to people and they will say that They don't fully understand free speech and a lot of people that I talk to think that saying Like the N word is illegal and I'm like it's it's not illegal and like you can say it but I can fire you Because I can't have a workplace where people say that right and but as a company you're also not forced to fire somebody Because of that that there's the one exception right which is if it's causing harm and danger You can't say fire on an airplane That's illegal But I don't think people understand the implications and why it's important because free speech is more important News media than anywhere else it's tough as a like now sort of stepping on my job and just being who I am and not having been in college that long ago like as a black woman like I Like not likely to want to Entire debate with someone who regularly uses the N word or like who literally thinks I'm not a human being like if you think about that I can understand why there are college students who React really viscerally to someone who has a maybe a record of speaking about who they are Like literally thinking that like they should go to gay conversion therapy or that like they are like Just a lesser species of human you know I can see why people react viscer this that because When you are a minority you literally spend your whole life Having experiences that like make you feel like your humanity is like chipped away or people are trying to chip it away and You're in a space you're in your college you are there to learn and You know learning doesn't mean not of course learning means like hearing opinions or hearing about issues or hearing about People and things happening that you've never thought of or you don't necessarily agree with But like to be asked to like attend an event or to sit through your graduation ceremony and Be spoken and I I I have to say that I I empathize with some of that like I was at the food cookman at the graduation ceremony reporting there when Betsy Devoss was sort of like boo I mean it was like actually the craziest graduation I've ever seen my life like she was booed Continually through the entire thing like any time someone dropped her name President Trump's name Everyone she was trying to make her speech people turn their backs on her There were grandmothers like leaning over railings being like Betsy Devoss go home like the entire time because they This historically black college like so did not want this woman there get sending their kids off into the world Like they just felt that was so inappropriate And again like I get the argument like you know She's part of the president and president's administration She has a lot of power over the education space people should want to have a dialogue with her to get people to the table But I also totally understand how some of the students felt which is like yeah, like we can get people to the table But like why on my graduation day like why is my graduation day going to be me sitting there with somebody who's like making cuts to programs that affect me who has made comments that were For reasons accidental or otherwise like disrespectful to the communities from which I come Like do like is it fair for my school to on my graduation a day where like I am not required to like get into political arguments people Like I'm actually here just celebrating what I've accomplished the last four or whatever years Like am I required to sit through and like feel disrespected by this person? I understand that too and I can't say honestly that if I was a butthoon cookman graduate that I would necessarily have felt different I don't know but I get it and so but there were a lot of people who react to that situation I'd be like those snowflakes like they can't hear an opinion that's not there is like They should be like look so lucky to have someone from the president's administration like come and talk to them on their graduation day I feel yeah, it would be very easy to see both sides and What's so hard I think in the moment of something like that is that when you do there there is the I don't want to call it like mob mentality but like Two people can very easily have a conversation and it's totally fine But then when you have a group of like 300 people together It can very easily Get out of hand where like you will get lost in that crap like like maybe even if I shared if I love that See the pose and I was at that event. I might be screaming at her a toner to get off the stage Right and like you do see that happening like it begins with like one person yelling a little bit And then like I think people are like yeah Now the whole room is like freaking out and everyone's like looking left and right and yeah madness does it is contagious in that way And I did talk to a lot of students and they kind of went in and they were like yeah This is she's not my favorite person, but like it's fine Yeah, and then like I would look over I would see them in the crowd and they would be like yeah You were at that angry yeah, so there is some of that and so that's why I do get why people are like rolling their eyes It's one of the stuff that happened. I get it But I do I do think that when there is like sort of a knee-jerk reaction now to be like oh Like this person like didn't get to speak it to prevent it this college like those kids are snowflakes like stop for a second and and unlike Just take a minute to try to understand like okay, what? What population are there students from like what experience as they had that speaker what ways in which like may those students feel like They don't just like object to that person's like economic Views or theories like that person may make that those kids feel Literally subhuman and I think So that there are certain people like the my lows that are obviously like provocateurs But I think there are some people that like Ben Shapiro I think he's been Yeah, silenced as well, but people like him I listen to he's an amazing example of somebody who like I would hate to have a debate with About like abortion or any issue that I haven't opinion about and I'm like wait a minute I think I might be wrong Like it's great to hear those people there. Yeah, they're not all my lows. Yeah, and that is that is some of where the problem is and why I like kind of I guess I don't know like where to draw a really sharp line But You know, I think that like sort of individual colleges need to and I'm not just it's not just a conversation that happened at colleges But for the sake of what we're talking about now like I think they need to figure out what their Students like how to communicate with the student body on like why they make decisions then to invite certain people Like if Anne Colter is going to come give a talk at Harvard University and There are people there who start to freak out about that like the administration might those kids the table Talk about like what the value like what has she been invited to talk about what Value does that maybe have to them how might the kids be able to be involved in the conversation to ask her questions to maybe confront her on her record You know make get a dialogue so they're not maybe forced to be in a situation where somebody is talking at them and they're not having that Opportunity for debate. I don't know. I think like I saw that with the Bethany Cookman example which was like You know but see devoss is a powerful and really interesting person those kids didn't really they they had to sit there on the Regulation day and listen to her speak There wasn't an opportunity for most of them to ask her any questions give them ideas tell them what policy issues You know and so yeah, it's kind of like well at least when like a moderator comes for some like talk like I have a Q and A section at the end Like there's something I can like learn and and and it's very yeah, yeah, you're totally right. It is Interesting but I think that like Sometimes these colleges have like kind of like brought these people in who they knew we're gonna piss their students off and for some reason Have like walled They're this school community off from like having a say in that and and that's some of what I side Those situations is like okay, you said it's for the students benefit like did you like talk to them about how and why Yeah, I think that's probably that's a good that's a good point and and if these colleges maybe approach in a different way Just didn't put flyers out and say and call to her next week. It's like saying You're face like the amount of time and call is coming If anybody obviously there's probably a lot of students who who disagree with her her values and principles We're having a meeting to discuss how this event should go. Yeah, like that's actually starting the conversation And what I like about bench appears events is that he will he'll have these events at colleges and then he'll do a talk and then afterwards He'll open it up to Q and A and he starts the line and he says only ask your question if you disagree with me And any point and like that those he left those people ask the question first because they tend to be the most interesting as well And now you're actually having a conversation. He lets them speak back and sometimes they have really productive conversations I'll be at differences Yeah, so I think that's probably that's a that's a good point to to go into our rapid fire We have it's a rapid question. It's not rapid answers I don't have the LED lights I'm gonna get some music and sound effects and stuff Actually, but first before we get into that I got one question for you. This is an ongoing part of the show Question, do you know the rock do I know the rock Johnson do I know him like he's in my friend? Yeah, you like buds No, do you know any of you really cool? Yeah, he seems awesome. I want to have the rock on the show That's like my big stretch goal is I want the rock to sit in that chair right there. Okay I'm good at convincing people to do things or like interview with me So like I might be able to find someone who knows the rock. Yeah. Oh, okay, so and and From your perspective having done so many interviews and Going out producing and finding the interviews. What do you think should be my strategy to get the rock? Like how do you get so you look like a regular Schmagular person You're just gonna be like yeah, hey like yeah, my your thoughts on yeah, maybe like I'll just get a membership at his gym and then yeah, do you know where does he live in? No, I think just see him Yeah How should you get I'll should you get the rocking show? I feel like yeah, you like join his gym Yeah, or like you find him on a beach in Miami or something like so that's where Bring some sun tan lotion Yeah, you like maybe like play like a game like I don't know beach football with him. Oh my god You know this genius like not like him in the head with the like little beach football and you're like oh my god Yeah, that's like bro like I have this podcast Yeah, I actually find microphones Yeah, like do you have an hour and 15 minutes? Yeah, no, I think I think he's a type of person who like he's just seems so Like he's a funny person. I just think he like Everybody loves him like even people who they don't really like his work or don't think he's a great actor like I'm still like Yeah, he's just like amazing guy He's super humble. Yeah, he's loves his kids so much. He just seems to have like so much passion for life And so I bet like the best way to get him on your show or get him to be your friend To get him to have a dinner with you or something is just like figuring out where he hangs out Yeah, like showing up and like bringing him that like I don't know juice press He likes a lot. I'm like do or like playing a game with him I don't have a personal something. That's supposed to be personal You know what? I also don't want to be creepy. So I'm approaching this slow Oh, but I get he gets creeped on all the time So he's just like keep it kind of chill. You're like so much better off like creepy as the nine Yeah, I mean I people probably just Run up to him and like take selfies with him without his permission like I imagine he's just being pounded anywhere They go so if you even are just make it a tiny bit natural Like fine. Yeah, what so seems non-judgmental? What question should I ask the rock? I Do you know that photo of him from years? Yeah, with a fanny pack? Yeah, what were you doing? What were you doing? What's in your fanny pack? Yeah. Oh, what was in the fanny pack? That's what I want to know. Yeah, what's next? Yeah, I'm just going to write that down. Yeah So this is going to be a journey. I'm going to try What are your questions people asked you to ask him? Oh, this is the first time I've ever thought of that I honestly only brought it up in the the last episode Was the This should be a rock and that's the thing is that I think the audience My audience of 200 people are going to be the ones that that get the rock And so if you guys that are listening, this isn't live, but if you guys that are listening know the rock She'd be an email Yeah, and That would be what they know so if you need help Yeah, producing Yo, I don't know see this is what I'm thinking is that I'm going to come in and like do like a lightning round at the end Like I will so help you out for for whoa. Yeah, that's amazing. Let me know this is what I'm thinking about doing some getting like comedians and you just musicians like I should just pull all the talent of everybody that I interviewed to somehow maybe make a video that's like deer the rock. Yeah, and then and then get him on the show. Yeah So how do you deal with criticism? Usually when I'm criticized I mean I think Well see we'll react to criticism especially when it comes kind of out of nowhere I think they have like a visceral like no, no, I'm not like that I know I did it right you're wrong and I'm normal like I have that reaction to But I actually have a little like notebook on my personal laptop where I keep notes that I've received from people Whether it's like hey, that's seen in your piece sucked or like you did not execute properly on this your pitch was not like Whatever it is or if it's even in my personal life from my friends like I failed a friend in some way I actually like keep notes about those things that probably sounds like a little psycho And kind of read back and just make sure periodically like oh like you know sometimes those situations repeat themselves like did I react better than next time Did I learn something from that fight that I had the friend You know I actually had with a friend that was connected to my work because I've been gone for so long and hadn't frankly Been good at keeping up with her. She's been in my roommate in college. We are still really close But I'd failed her as a friend like I just didn't Keep in touch and I I think I felt like my job was so crazy and my job was so unique that like she'll she'll be fine She sees me when she sees me like she doesn't need me to call her like she's good I'm the one who's like has a rough life right now. It's not true And you know I make little notes about the times that I've failed and Fucked up on those things because I can go back and be like okay, I've repaired this one. I got that criticism I fix it. I repair things with this person in a personally or Better at this at my job now And I can kind of keep tabs on on my growth in that way But I do that for both Literally like little fights I have with a sibling or Big things and I need to improve on my work. It's so you know and like the short term Sometimes I have a reaction like the imagery action that a lot of people have which is like what no? I've been busy and I didn't mean to do it so you should not be meant, you know like that kind of thing But I always write it down because usually I look back later and like you know what I Could have done better and here's how I'm gonna do it How do you face doubt we talked about that a lot about how We go into a lot of scenarios where we have no idea what we're doing Yeah, how do you face it going into the situations? Um I have some songs Okay, but playlists of songs. Oh really when I feel Dalfo and I've read all right. Let's go. We got to get a couple of these songs I need to make a spot if I playlists right now Okay, so I A lot of it is like Rick Ross. Oh, yeah, I shared it elevator with Rick Ross once really. Yeah, what time Rick Ross sweat on you? Yeah, like a lot of sweat He did when it was at a A charity event and he was the performer at it and I like snuck up to the front of the stage and just kept yelling Rick Ross And he got like leaned over and looked down on like a big glob of sweat came through his beard wow There was a moment there. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm keeping this sweat Yeah, like he looked at me after Really, yeah, it was so amazing. Yeah, I did a little documentary with Meek Mill when he first got sign of Rick Ross's record label. It's funny because Meek Mill is one of the he didn't want me filming him It was a scenario where another company was paying me to be out there Yeah, I follow him around and like I would show up at a radio station at 4 3 34 a.m And then he would just kind of shake his head like he said he's a dude I don't want to be here either, but it's my job. Yeah, this is years ago And then I had him miced up and then he went in to talk to the radio host and He was talking shit about me because I have the audio always do that Damn, man people always do that that happens option on advice shoots It'll be like oh, this department will not leave me alone You can hear everything they're saying. It's hilarious Did you not see the access Hollywood tape like that your mic is always on that Happened with a politician in the UK. Yeah, he he went he got in the car into over way and then it was one of those Kind of he was basically calling somebody to ask him a question like a simple tin like yeah like a complete idiot Who the hell made me do that interview? He got a mic on a soon someone forget it All right, did we do we do the how to face up? Oh, I was still to tell you about Rick Ross songs Yeah, I mean I do lame things like call my mom and my mentor. It's be like, I'm afraid Yeah, and then I listen to sounds like John by Rick Ross a little Wayne and then I'm like John by Rick Ross Yeah, anything is possible. Yeah anything is possible when you listen to Rick Ross And Sometimes I like do lame things like if I'm I have some big interview that I'm nervous for like I'll look at myself in the mirror and Say something like prayer that you say back on those that CCD all the time Whatever and just kind of like remind myself like hey even if I did so even if I bomb this Like if this is the worst interview the history of interviews like I maybe I don't say anything at all I just freeze up and I say nothing I'll be actually fine, but come home and we'll still have lots of things in the movie Okay, I'll just say something along those lines in the mirror and then go and and figure it out What one skill or tool have you leveraged in a way that others haven't could be a could be a skill or could be actual like a physical or digital tool I think I touched on this before but I really think the like really the one thing that I have That not everybody who does the work that I do Executes well on is like I know how to take a story that maybe people don't empathize with Maybe they don't care enough about Make it visual and find a way to find characters that like bring it to life in a way that somebody who's far from That state far from that prison whatever it is Like it's brought into their world and can start to understand I've done that with that prison reporting have done the Chicago gun violence reporting. I've done Gavin Grimm, whether it's LGBT rights whatever I think really carefully and every story that I do about How I'm gonna make it really different from how everyone else is talking about this you How I can find Media people and elements to bring into the piece. I mean, that's like sort of the luxury of doing visual journalism too is that It's not just my writing like I can bring in so If you take from the music to Documents that and graphics I can work with illustrators You know, so many tools in my fingertips and I can think about ways to just like blow that story out And so I think I have been fortunate to also get to work with people to who think that way And a really aggressive in storytelling in that way And yeah, I think I just have like a little bit of a knack for it like that's It's not a digital tool. It's not not the best bad at Twitter actually there are some digital tools. I'm just bad at it But I know how to find And execute on like good and surprising stories. Right. I think that's the thing too and it's it's You have to be genuinely interested and generally enjoy what you're doing yeah Like some there there is a lot of drudgery that you're gonna have to go through and it's not always fun and exciting But at the end of the day you have to really like it. Yeah, I think it's probably the same for you right You know like they're a part of your job that are a job Yeah, but at the end of the day once you like actually watch your finished product a lot of the time you're like That was just fun like for me like that like I feel so good. Yeah, like I come home and I feel really good about what I've made and I've shared with you Yeah, absolutely Let's say someone's stuck somebody just graduated Harvard or another school Or they're they're setting out to do something different maybe they're not going to college What advice would you give them To kind of pave their own way and make their own way? Yeah I mean, this is advice that I followed too is I think like don't wait for That perfect job description to open up for you Don't wait for that opportunity to knock on your door not that you know people aren't Slaving away all the time to hunt for opportunities like keep doing that, but You know like fight to make the case for yourself like I literally got my jobs By going to people who didn't weren't looking for me weren't but didn't hadn't put out a Call looking for like an intern who'd come in and basically sell them stories I like fought to the nail. I like reached out to people who barely knew me who knew a friend of a friend of a friend or something And I got 15 minutes and I tried to make my case. I think When especially when you're coming out of if you want to do something excretive or You know like story telling isn't like finance and it's not secure in the ways that the a lot of jobs that Frankly like students are looking at right now For whole host of reasons are I think you have to then like come in and it come into it with the attitude of like I'm going to fight and and often be like pitching and selling myself like I'm my own agent I'm every day in any interaction I have with people I'm Kind of in those early stages. I'm fighting to to kind of in casual and uncomfortable ways like show my value and I think it's not it's not waiting for again that like Perfect opportunity to come to you. It's a going to places where you think you might add value and talking to people by you can do it Yeah, I think that's that's really the best way To break into a space where then you're gonna be able to make a big impact Is there one vice story or even mic story that you that you worked on that you would recommend People watch like what would kind of give you the best feel for the kind of work that you do My favorite story I have ever done in any thing ever is The piece I did on Trump and Chicago gangs for Vice-new tonight I worked on that with producer Tracy Jarrett who is also just one of my best friends And it is an 11 minute mini doc that we convinced our bosses at Vice-to-air on the nightly show which is only 30 minutes so getting 11 minutes of the show was a Was hard But I don't want to give it away because I want to go watch it, but It is It really represents Everything that I'm trying to do with the work that I do which is Take what's happening on the political stage and a lot of the theater and antics that you see there And look at how a lot of what you look at and you think is a joke that you want to turn off and you want to back away from like no It has real consequences in some people's lives and here is a community in Chicago Here's a group of people who are literally dying the at risk of dying And here how the words the sometimes Faulty promises that are made in DC in whatever political office Here's how those words actually have an impact then on the the chances those people have at literal survival And I spent I went to Chicago several times I spent time in DC for the piece and I spent time in Cleveland Our team worked really really really hard on that. I worked really on it It's a story that I pitched and developed and just like it personally means so much to me And so I think if someone is interested in learning more about my style or like what I try to do that Piece alone can you can speak to like how hard I work and what I try to do and how I do it I do better than anything. I can't frankly articulate What do you know episode that was on? I frankly episode number I can look that up but you can all of our pieces are released online for free That's an awesome thing we have at HBO You can literally Google Like Antonio Hilton trump Chicago gangs and it would come up on YouTube and probably Facebook video too On a similar sentiment, but I wanted to get that out of the way something that that you would actually created because I'm personally interested to see something that that you that really connected with you But I get every guest to to give me and the audience one thing to watch listen to or read before they go to bed It like and it doesn't have to be like short form something they can finish but something that they can start so Yeah, so one thing to watch one thing to watch I would watch I think there's a couple You know, I think like right now People and maybe it's just me feel like a lot of the stuff they have to watch has to be like These big dramas or like serious news or whatever and if there's not as much space for like comedy and and just like not taking yourself so seriously but One of the best things I've done recently is invest time and watching things like Master of none and and deer white people. I think Both of those two shows are Really and deer white people not being as Funny as master of none. It's a sort of a dromity, but I Think those are two shows Easily accessible you should at least start and watch because they kind of like you're looking at characters of color You're looking at people who's experiences aren't like the mainstream But like kind of the issues that they're diving into or the casual relationships that they're like following and playing out and those two Shows right now. I think are are universal experiences and so I think anybody anyone listening to watching the show Would get something out of it even if they don't finish the entire season like try an episode Make time to to watch something kind of clever weird and and shorter form than A lot of the like big drama that dominates TV and and dominates our new cycle right now Mm-hmm Listen one thing to listen to besides John by Rick Ross one thing to listen to She care has a great new album now right now I know that Or you don't even need to understand Spanish too And read do you do much long? I mean do you have time to read long form books with all the Not as a reason you do, but I do read all the time Actually probably the best book I've read recently is I might be pronouncing her name wrong yag yasi But homecoming. It's a sort of fictional historical Telling about our home going sorry home going way agiosy and and I apologize to the author if I'm But it is Historically influenced fictional novel and it I read it a couple months ago, so it's not like it Working through it right now, but it is probably my favorite thing I've read in the past year and it touched on the African diaspora in sort of Follows this family tree spreading out of Africa and and Out into the West so I don't want to get away too much from that, but It's a really excellent book and it's one of those fictional novels where you actually learn things about people's like real things that are part of people's family history and and part of like our Global transatlantic Even current economy that are just really Interesting and and different but also Like again, place such like a part of like our sort of social fabric and it's done in a in a fictional and beautifully written book, so Yeah, probably aside from my ton of hazy coats has worked that Loved really this year. I think that's probably my favorite thing. Great. How should people connect with you online? You said you're bad at it. I mean, I don't want to enter and I try but not you're not gonna like go on my Twitter and it's gonna be the best Yeah, I've been on all my stuff is a H. Y. L. T. O. N. 26 So That's yeah, all the things the Instagrams this Twitter all of the things do accept and then my email is just my first dot my last name My advice and I like actually like talking to people. I don't know. So I'll respond to you. Yeah, that would be awesome Okay, cool. That's it. That's the show. Thank you, Matt. There's was so fun. Thanks so much for coming on easy to do Yeah, this was cool. I was a little afraid for I did this. Yeah, I had one of those like oh, I should have never done this before Yeah, you know, I can nervous when I get interviewed on podcast too and I'm like sometimes I'll like kind of jot down and like I need some good stories. I need like some idea of what I want to say going into it But I find for better or for worse. I didn't have time to like through what I was gonna tell you Yeah, same with this. I genuinely sat here for all of your questions. I was like I love what I'm about what I actually do think that's really good because that I have the same experience like I Used to write out questions and do like a lot of background research, but like lately because I've been busy It's kind of that beautiful Accident where I'm like, okay, now Just get the jump and do it together and have a conversation. Well, it feels like the spirit of this show too is it's not like you're not bringing on An expert to cover health care this week. Like you don't need me to come in heaven memorized Yeah, the latest shit. It's just like actually how these people like live and now they got where they are and It makes them cool. Yeah, I'm just I'm like kind of floored that I was invited to be on it Oh, thanks so much. Yeah, thank you for coming on No, it's fun. Thank you
