# Ground Up 048 - Creative Control w/ Joel P West
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PPjcH_LmQ1w
http://groundupshow.com

Joel P West is a musician & composer. He’s scored indie film’s like Short Term 12 & Band of Robbers, as well as an episode for the upcoming season of Netflix's Chef's Table.

In our conversation we talk about gaining confidence, enjoying the process & when to turn projects down.

More from Joel: http://joelpwest.com

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
My podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** ground up, joel p west, composer, music, film, filmmaking, behind the scenes, set life, the ground up show, Matt D'Avella, matt davella, creative, creators, make stuff, makers, gonna, make, 
**Date:** 2018-02-28

## Transcript
 My creative heroes didn't take the gigs early on and then try and like work them back around to like creativity they the bands I like and the filmmakers I like they just made the stuff they were making. There became money around it and there became credibility around it but now it's completely on their terms. You have to keep the lights on so I'm always like stumped by expensive lights. Jopi West is a musician and composer. He scored indie films like Short Term 12 and Band of Robbers as well as last year's major motion picture the glass castle. Just before our conversation today he had wrapped up season three an episode of season three of chef's table which I'm super excited to check out myself. That's going to be on Netflix at some point in the future. Unless you're listening to this in the future in which case I'm wrong. The conversation today was great. It was high energy. He's super talented and gives a lot of insight into the creative process. In our chat we talk about believing in your abilities and really gaining confidence in what you do. Enjoying the process of creating and when to say yes to projects and when to say no. This podcast is brought to you advertisement free. If you want to support the show there are a couple of things that you can do. You can leave a review on iTunes. You can share this podcast or your favorite podcast episode with a friend. You can contribute a question to the show sending them into hello at MattDevil.com. That way my guest and I can get to the bottom of some of the things that you guys are dealing with. Overall just just download subscribe all that stuff. If you guys know the deal I don't need to tell you how to do this but anyway would love to keep this thing advertisement free. Would love to grow this podcast and if you can help that would really mean a lot to me. Okay let's get into this podcast. This is Joel P West. You're listening to the ground up show. A podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is MattDevil and I'm a filmmaker best known for the net flex documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. Joel thanks for being here. Thanks for being on the podcast. You want to show? Sure. How do I do that? I think I might have started already. I'm like it. Yeah I don't know. Half the time it just kind of we just get running straight into it. But so it's called the ground up show. You know I talk about people's stories and how they got started with something. We've worked together before. I want to learn a little bit about that. But first, what have you been up to lately? Give me a rundown of what your works like these days. Yeah so I just finished doing music for an episode of a show, Chef's Table which I was excited to do because I'm a big fan of that show. So I just I turned that in on Sunday night. It's Tuesday now. So I'm kind of starting a little break. I'm going to head up to Big Sur next week to try and work on some lyrics for an album I've been writing that kind of want to sneak some time in on before I get on the next project. So yeah I'm finishing up a pretty busy season because this episode went over the holidays. So it was just like pretty pretty full on for a while and quick turnaround for a lot of music but I'm really excited about it and like fresh off that and just starting to like figure out what I'm doing next time. Is that generally what your schedule looks like these days where it's a big project and then you have some downtime and then big project and then downtime? Yeah it for sure is and I kind of preferred that way. I've a really hard time like halfway working on things like if I if I'm on I know it's I know it's the right project if I'm like total maniac and don't think about anything else for the entire time I'm working on it. So I don't and I'm not very good at doing two things at once so I love working on feature films and I'm working on albums because I can just live in it for two months usually you know or sometimes even longer and just completely do only that and even when I'm spending my free time I'm usually like thinking about it and then I sort of take a big break and then like come back to another project later. So to me it's like a big inhale exhale like back and forth where I just go fully into like making things for a long season and I just completely exist in that and then when it's done I sort of come up for air and then figure out I don't know kind of listen to my body and mind and figure out what I what I've been neglecting and sort of what I've mentioned to them and you just like try and watch a bunch of movies listen to a bunch of records read and then sort of like get ready to jump in on another project whenever it comes and go full in again. It's a good point that it is like a lot of times it's it's it's full time isn't it's not even just you know if you work eight or ten hours in a day but then once you're done it is so hard to turn that off to be like all right I'm not going to think about this project anymore because you might think of different ideas when you're on the subway or if you're you're writing your bike. Is that I guess one of the reasons why you do that is is that it would be very hard to do two projects at the same time because those kind of ideas overlap and specifically for you your music is so crafted to specific films. It's not like you can just take band of robbers and throw that on another soundtrack and another film we would just sound completely off. Does that help you and in your creation to be very focused? I think it's just what I like to do and so it's more of an indicator to me that I'm that I'm doing what I'm supposed to be doing because when I first like I always try and think of I think most creatives are trying to tap into something from our youth or kind of like a there there's like an organic process of being artistic and creative when you're younger because you're not thinking about anything but just like what you want to do like there's not these other pressures and so I think for me getting back to that like that pure creativity is it's always a good sign if I'm doing something else and in the back of my mind I'm kind of like excited to get out of the social event or the movie or whatever I'm doing to like go work. Not because I'm like oh I'm like I'm behind I need to get this done and like well if it's that that's not great but if it's more like I'm excited like I really want to get back to the work because I'm excited because I have ideas I love that feeling and I love I love having something a project in the back of my mind so when I'm out taking a walk or I don't know just watching things or listening to things that I have kind of like a butterfly net that's like looking for little inspiration ideas or different ways of seeing things and so yeah that's kind of just to me it's like it's where good work comes from is when I just care so much that it's sort of taking over me and I also I don't really I don't take being able to do this for work lightly and I don't know how long it's gonna last so to me I'm always I think there's a certain great fullness that sort of drives good work too of like realizing that you're getting to work on something that you care about and something that you know feeds you creatively um I don't know if whatever I get in a motor I'm like kind of starting to complain about how much work it is it's like a good sign to like go take a five minute walk and sort of zoom out and realize that I don't know it's all it's like a total gift to be able to do this kind of thing so I just like going full on but that's just that's just me so yeah I always have expect that everything's just gonna fall apart at any moment I'm like things are going too well and then when I look back like even making a feature like documentary at one point was like this grandiose dream where I'm like oh like if I could do that and even at that time I'm like things are great I've got good I've got great clients that I work with I'm doing work that I'm filled with but at any given time it could it could fall apart and I think if that if you're okay with that if you're like man I am so grateful that I just have this opportunity to do it right now it just takes that stress off there was who was it was um somebody was talking about any Murphy like they had a conversation with any Murphy and it's like why don't you do comedy anymore and he's like well I got to the top I was like and it's so hard to stay there he's like I was at the top everything was great he was doing the biggest movies of all time he was doing these great I don't know if you were like familiar with his old comedy specials but he wore this like leather suit and it was like leather jacket leather pants but he was like a superstar and then he just felt like he couldn't maintain it and it's like well you don't you don't have to maintain it you don't have to be at the top you don't always have to be like the number one book comedian of all time it's about actually enjoying the work you do and if you know maybe he didn't like it but if you actually enjoy that work if you enjoy doing stand up if it's 200 people great if it's you know a million people cool but it doesn't have to be yeah yeah for sure I think that's like a good lesson and like like just trying to like I don't know truly be honest with yourself and think about what you actually want because it is on the outside it's probably seems crazy people for somebody like that to sort of like I don't know dip out and not I don't know not keep producing the work that everybody like loves because I think it's like easy to go like well if I was in that position I would I would like want to like squeeze that out as hard as I could and it's like a good reminder that I don't know it's you have to judge success based on your own interpretation and and needs and desires of what you want if that's not I think like it's the scariest thing being successful in what you do to an outside perspective but not actually caring about it that much yourself it's like a weird place to to be you know like it like in for instance if you just become kind of type cast and getting really good work in this avenue of the creative thing you do like that you don't like that much I feel like that happens for a lot of people like you just have a awesome least steady flow of work that you're not that excited about so it's like it's like tricky because you're involved in what you like to do but it's not like exactly it and you feel kind of like lame complaining about it right everybody's like why would you complain about that you've got it made you know this money you've got like these amazing projects you work on that's probably harder to restart and to completely change up what you're doing when you have this quote unquote success then it is to start from the very beginning because when you're starting from the very beginning nobody's listening nobody's watching it doesn't really matter you can't fail but then when you already have this platform that's why I like the rock is like one of my biggest inspirations because he's one of those guys I like continually reinvented himself over the years like football player that didn't work out he turned into professional wrestling like that's like a crazy profession to get him to he achieved success in that and then switching over to become an actor and like I'm sure so many professional wrestlers have tried to do that most of them weren't able to make that transition but you have to be able to take that risk like everybody's gonna be like you're crazy the way the rock the rock's in a movie the scorpion king now that's not going to work yeah I wonder if it's like just I wonder if he just was able to take himself seriously enough that everybody else did too because I don't know when you see that professional wrestling stuff like it's it's pretty like it's pretty crazy like it's pretty ridiculous like it's kind of hard to believe that it exists it has like falling that it does because it's so campy so you're like to think of him as like a like a real comedic actor or like something I don't take that serious like on space I don't take it seriously it's like a kind of wonder if he just took himself seriously enough to be like I truly want to do this and everybody ended up being like oh okay yeah that's actually like working yeah he was just like all sheer belief like he believed in himself so much that he was able to make it happen and he has he's a guy that started from nothing he like seven dollars who is name and like just to be able to to keep that going but it's crazy to think about his path and like how did he go like to just make it as an actor as one thing but then he became like the biggest Hollywood star on the planet like that is weird I don't know if you see behind you I've got a photo of the rock yeah I've got this recurring thing on the show where I'm trying to get the rock on my podcast he he hasn't returned my phone calls yet but I'm not believing yeah so I always try to bring him up at least once I'm never show um so you grew up in Oregon yeah right what was that like it was awesome I realized more and more how awesome it was my dad worked at a summer camp which I'm really I also realized more and more that he had he just had a pretty dialed because he liked being in the woods he liked he was like a youth pastor he like working with kids so he started working at the summer camp which meant that we lived there and during the summer it was really busy fill up with kids and like a summer staff would come out mostly like college kids and then in the winter or I guess the three other seasons it was just rentals on the weekend it was just kind of slow it was just a couple just us and two other families left up there so he had a pretty sweet gig because he just walked to a little office it was like a couple hundred yards away and it was just around um we were just kind of up there doing our thing that's amazing so you just lived in the woods yeah and you lived you lived on a summer camp like all year yeah we lived at the camp all year around so um so you know to me that wasn't that's that was normal to me growing up but now I realize that that's it's pretty special um it's really beautiful it's it's uh if you've ever been to the forest up there in Washington where you know it's kind of I mean it all kind of looks the same but it's like rain forest it's just super dense um ferns and like big trees it's like everybody talks about like things about uh return of the Jedi or something you know like just really lush forest like that so I got to grow up in that and it was this great it was also really creatively challenging um I was like where I went to high schools it really uh pretty low income rural kind of like farm town and so I think partly because um because my parents were a little bit outsiders like they moved there to be at the camp um but probably had like a little more education and just kind of like world knowledge um then then the average person who's there who mostly was born and grew up there uh it was always like very I think I was kind of felt like an outsider and I didn't have a big truck covered in mud and I didn't have guns and I didn't like care about most things like baseball or things that people were into I was like I think I kind of loved being an outsider but I was like in escape boarding I was in the music and I just kind of kind of like was a lone wolf and so I was a little bit ready to get out of there too so now I love it and I love going back but um it was like a beautiful place that I also had to kind of like run from because same same small town story most people have just you know wanting to be involved in creative things and um having just finding nobody to sort of like lead me there in that in that world and having a hard time picturing like what I would do if I stayed there so right it's funny how we find the value in what that is like the small hometown and and the quiet we were just talking before the podcast about how you know living in LA or especially New York it can be a little bit draining on your psyche and you appreciate more and more of those those kind of moments of solitude where you can be out in the woods and be surrounded by you know nothing but nature yeah it's it's really special and and I think like we were talking about seasons too and I think there is um there's a really good it's a really good practice I think being being in I mean it's me it's like a funny concept just that when that we use the word nature to like that nature is something that happens like outside of normal life because I mean it is here but it's like a weird concept to me that we that living in a city you do it is like a separate experience and you have to you like do one or the other but do you think that experiences in open spaces in nature and especially that are seasonal I think are really special I think it's a good practice to kind of give into that because I think it's Southern California is like the the inventor of like being entitled with getting to do whatever you want with your day and being never ever being in convenience by like whether or by like I don't know like it's it's sort of just like a fictional place with like we have grass and trees that we just put here and we hit because we have sunshine and so I think it's like there's something about about the life up there that there's for one a lot of times there's a lot of days you can't do stuff you want to do it's just raining buckets or it's snowing or it's icy you can't drive and then also there's like moments that are really special like wildflowers come out or the leaves change or the water funnel waterfalls get big like in the spring and there's like things that you kind of like you get excited for or blackberries like are in bloom you can go pick them anywhere and like the ditches inside the road so there's something really good I think about that practice that is I think if I got too far away from it living here I'll just start probably believing all of the other dumb myths that we sort of surround ourselves with living in I don't know in like a city you just get caught up at and at a lot of times it's like unspoken patterns like the busyness and the rushing around everywhere to to be completely disconnected from the calm I think can certainly have an effect on you and it probably has an effect on your work as well yeah I think you start taking yourself too seriously and you start thinking that like career things and I don't know just owning objects like actually matters or you like start actually believing that that it's going to do anything for like your experience as a human being which it's not yeah I remember like just growing up having the most amazing experiences just looking up at the stars like I get home late at night in high school and then I parked the car I'd sit on my hood and just like look up at the stars for like 30 minutes and just be memorized and it was like the most reassuring thing in the world and it was like a form of meditation where if I was stressed out about class or stressed out about my job or work just to do that would be like dude what what am I worried about and it's hard in a city or when when you're surrounded by light pollution to be able to even see the stars but every once in a while I'll have that experience if I'm you know back home or if I'm you know traveling the Joshua tree or somewhere else where you can just kind of sit back and realize like oh okay my problems are so small for sure yeah I think if we could see anybody who hasn't I I think there are a lot of people who've never seen the night sky like really far out of the city like with no moon where it's just like white or it's like like almost like milk like it's more white than black almost or it's just so crazy how many stars you can see I think if you could see that every night I think that the world would be like a little bit different place as far as like people's interactions and the way that they see themselves because you're right like it's the whether whether you like no matter like how involved you aren't something else or stressed or whatever you're into like when you see that when you like get out of the car and like look up and see it like I feel like it's 50% fascination and awe and just like loving it and 50% just total existential panic like looking out there you know but when you see it it it stops you in your tracks because you're like oh we're floating out here it's just all it's just like yeah it's kind of a yeah definitely like a speechless moment where it's kind of hard to put it into words that's the one thing that I'm grateful for in terms of filmmaking is that it's gotten me to wake up early to capture sunrises when like I remember the first time I shot a sunrise it was for this little doc series that I had started called Limbo and it was about people's experience post college graduation and because I had found myself in a state of Limbo where I had $100,000 in student loan debt and I was like well where do I go now I have this degree but I don't have a job I'm not making any money and I was seeing a lot of my friends in the same place especially just following the 2008 financial crisis so there weren't many jobs at the time and I had linked up with my friend who was trying to be a professional cage fighter right on her and he like had graduated with a degree in broadcast telecommunications so I followed him around for a couple days I see was prepping for his first fight and it was like it was like in Pennsylvania and I woke up early to get the sunrise it's always a little bit painful when you first wake up you're like ah I shouldn't do this this is like I should just go back to bed it's going to be a long day and then I you know I hike up to the top of this lookout point in and I fell in the sunrise and like looking back it probably wasn't the most spectacular sunrise I've ever seen but I couldn't remember the last time I just just been up for it yeah and then all day you feel like you have this secret that nobody else knows that you sort of got it you like kind of have a whole different perspective on the day then and it's like it's like your own little secret you have with the universe that you got to do that or something yeah you're like you guys didn't see this I feel like I have a better picture of the the day and the world yeah and you like check into yourself and you sort of like have this I don't know there's there's something that's like hard to explain about just getting up early and having that like I guess to me I think about like when you meet up coffee and and you've been up forever and you've like done all this stuff and seen these beautiful things and you can tell that other people are like just sort of surfacing and like whoa I just got away with something amazing like I already I already did so much today are you an early riser yeah I'm like I'm like a pretty light sleeper and I like I work really well in the mornings so I try and keep that discipline I'm actually like late in the last few months for the first time in a long long time like a decade I started like regularly staying up to like two or three working creatively but it's a little bit of an experiment but I like my mornings I think also living in a city it's it's just you you have the place to yourself a little bit because that you can stay up late but it's like always busy a night like it's busy there's traffic like it's just it's it's still hectic it's cool like LA especially in the summer at night it's like it's kind of great but mornings are dead and on the I feel like where I live in such a hipster neighborhood that's like a lot of freelance creative people and people working in film no what is up dude it's amazing nobody very early on my girlfriend Natalie she was in Australia getting her visas situated and she was coming back so I picked her up as a 5 a.m. I wake up to go pick her up at the airport and like having experienced a little bit of LA traffic before and I was like so I prepared like an hour to get there it took me 15 minutes to get the airport no cars this was like this is when you leave like 5 a.m. on a Saturday nobody's awake nobody's up so it was it was like if if I feel like that alone gives me some comfort and and just being able to freely move about like if you're one it's always frustrated with traffic wake up a little bit early yeah you could go to the beach you if you want it could take you 15 minutes to get there it's uh I think it's definitely one of those things that you have to um I don't know I know some people are late stay up late at night they that's when they do their best work but for me to be able to consciously make that shift to wake up between 5.30 and 6.30 every day has just helped me so much like you said it's like you get more work done by 11 or you you know you experience more by 11 than you normally would in an entire day yeah yeah it is something there's something kind of I don't know it's hard to put my finger on it but um I feel like it it gives me a clarity and like a like an openness to the day because I've gotten I don't know I don't because I feel like I'm ahead of it I feel like when I wake up at like 9 there's something I'm like I'm like I'm already like I need to like start the things and that I'm planning on doing and it feels like I'm not in control of my day or something like I just have to like jump in and get it I can't like take a break and just go sit in my hand make and think about something for 10 minutes because I'm like I gotta like I need to get this going I owe people some things that I said I'd get them today or whatever and right it starts to stress you out and when you wake up a little bit early I think it gives you the ability to step back and kind of control you're right it's it's really it's like it's really a control yeah yeah and you can um and I think in doing that then you also kind of get a perspective of just like realizing one that you can get a lot you can usually get stuff done a lot of faster than you think if you like our focused and and are excited to just get it done so you can get to something else um that are just like peddling online like for looking at God knows what yeah I'm just trying to get a dumb email off that really is gonna it's like a minute of work but it's like 20 minutes of just like whatever I think like I'm so much less likely to kind of like spin out doing dumb things with my time if I like wake up early and kind of like get that time to sort of I don't know almost like set intentions for myself for the day and get excited about things or or I don't know take care of just something I'm stressed about yeah I think too wake up early you actually have to have a plan of what you're gonna do because I've definitely done it before where I'm like I'm gonna wake up early tomorrow and then I you know my alarm goes off and I'm like but I didn't have a plan for what was gonna do so I wouldn't I would just snooze it and I'm like I whatever like I you know I know I got work to do but I can get it done later but then when I say all right I'm gonna wake up and then you know for the first half hour I'm gonna do this I'm gonna prep a podcast I'm gonna you know shoot off some emails if I have a at least a plan of what I want to do with the first two to three hours and like you said like when I'm excited about a project and I'm like oh I can't wait to edit that video I can't wait to you know take the next step on that project that I think is what gets you out of bed yeah yeah for sure um you weren't exposed to much media growing up and and that's on my camp in Oregon you didn't did you have a TV and well we had one we didn't have we didn't get TV channels so what did you do I was like we just had like VHS yeah I mean we could kind of get PBS would come in some there was like there was like it depending on the weather and it depended on like how many people were in the room because there's like we're I don't know if you ever had this for the TV because we had like an antenna like not like on that roof or anything just the TV itself had like a big antenna yeah and you could like kind of almost like you're playing a fair amount or something if you know those are yeah you could like move your hands and then you get like a better signal it was like everybody at the end like a position it was the other way yeah it was like somebody like left like hey you like come stand there right so we get like we had very limited it's all for PBS too yeah that was like just trying yeah trying to get like Sesame Street or something but yeah so we had like a lot of we would like have VHS tapes and stuff but the thing is that I think my parents were like probably pretty excited that to have that much control over at least my dad is like very he's very sheltery like conservative like Christian guy that just was like we couldn't watch any like I could not watch anything like I couldn't watch PG movies until like high school pretty much like where I was like we just didn't watch him we just went outside which now I'm grateful for but it's a little funny because it may be a contributor to my creative voice just because I have no idea what other people are doing or I'm just catching up you know like I have like I don't have the language because I just didn't have the exposure but at the same time I'm like actively always trying to catch up on on things like I'm like I have a list of movies like I'm like for instance I just watch the godfather like last week for the first time like I just watch it's like movies where everybody's like you have to watch yeah yeah for a scalp I just watched that last year like things like that I just never watched I feel the same way actually about music I don't know if that was the same for you but I was like didn't you know first listen to the Beatles until college or the Rolling Stones until like a year and a half ago when I read the dudes memoir so it's like there's there's so much so many creations that are out there there's so much amazing art between film and TV and music that I mean it can be overwhelming first but at the same time like if you can find kind of those those well curated pieces from the past I feel like you can learn a lot from them for sure and I love I mean I used to hate Spotify a little bit as an artist because it's a little scary it's very much like changing what it means to put music out and the way people consume music and in a lot of ways it kind of goes away from things I like about music but just being able just the well of just being able to like get lost in there and just catch up and discover it's kind of like you know if it's like a Friday I'd just see what kind of see what new albums are coming out and if there's nothing I'm usually get excited to like listen to new music over the weekend because people put records on Fridays now and it's like oh look and if there's nothing if nobody's releasing something I'm interested in then I just immediately kind of click into this mode of like what if I what could I like catch up on like things like like actually it was last year I think I just realized I'd never I didn't really know what the grateful dead sounded like so I'm like I'm just going to spend some time like figuring that out and not necessarily like my favorite I'm not that into them but I was like it was cool to like get into them for like a little while just to like check it out you know and I think if enough people are talking about something more if it's attracted enough of an audience you but all right there's there's obviously something there this is resonating with people what is it about this music that is connecting yeah especially timeless stuff because it's like there's I don't know the like chances of being of like being creatively like excited about a bowie record that I just never listen to versus like just whatever some random record that somebody put out yesterday like probably gonna be more to find on that bowie record that like tons of people over decades have been like that's a crazy record you should listen to that right so I'm always like trying to find that kind of stuff that I just missed the bowed on or I don't know it's just sitting out there just waiting you know waiting for somebody to find it sort of it is one of those challenging things that I've found myself where when you are a creator when you're constantly making stuff and say if you're in that mode of like you're working on chef's table and you're like it's consuming so much your life to find time to still consume work experiment or learn or in a lot of ways it needs to be scheduled because like how do you find the time to actually experiment and find new music when you're always working um I walk a lot like it's kind of like it's always been like a part of my creative routine and just part of I don't know just part of my like my day and then we just adopted this dog like a year ago and so that's just adds to that or there's like it sort of like formalized the the practice because she's always wanting to go and walk so um I spend a lot of time on Spotify prepping playlists like if I'm gonna work on like before I make any music usually for for something um well not necessarily before but like when I first get hired for a project I will read the script or like see whatever whatever there is to see and then especially if I have a conversation with a director like about where they're trying to go creatively then I usually just start loading up massive playlists just anything that I think might be like interesting and always trying to my goal is always to try and go like listen to music that's not like the music I'm about to make because if I listen to something that's like that sounds similar to what I'm trying to do then I'm just gonna copy it so I try and find something that's interest me and that's like exciting or kind of new to me that is like gonna be hard to mimic you know like directly um so I don't know like if I'm trying to do some like focus guitar writing then I'm like trying to like listen to I don't know like an old film score like some big classical thing because there might be some interesting chord change or some kind of like rhythm or something that I'm like oh that's kind of cool like I wonder if I could adapt something like that like stretch it really far into this like other world of music I'm trying to work in and then see if it becomes something new um so I just spend a lot of time I don't know like I'll load up I'll look for music and I'll just stack it up and then listen to it usually the mornings I go on a walk and just listen like save stuff and those those playlists kind of start getting like consolidated down into like a more like a greatest hits of just things that are exciting to me or have kind of like give me some kind of a spark usually I guess if nothing else just give me like um make me think about something in a in a way that's not the natural way I would think about it and go like oh you could totally do this this whole other you know there's a total other creative decision that could be made here so I do that a lot and then I also am pretty intentional about like I always have lists going of um what I want to watch just because I feel like it's uh feeling the one weird thing with like digital platforms is that they're totally just winning on just getting us to watch whatever they want us to watch which luckily like a lot of that content's great like the stuff that Netflix is trying to you to watch is actually pretty great so it's like I don't know that's something to be thankful for but for me I'm like I like to be in control of what I'm watching and like have an idealist that so when I'm lazy and I just want to watch something I like have something easy to pull up and go like oh yeah I wanted to watch that where um because I'm usually trying to watch something that's related to what I'm doing so you know I watched a few other documentaries while I was working on chef's table just to like I don't know keep expanding my mind of like what's possible and what other people do and um trying to shake up my own creative tendencies um and a documentary is a little bit unique in that oftentimes there is a voiceover we're talking head over the music and and sometimes the music uh you don't want it to compete with it's yeah it's a totally different approach than um than a feature because the features I like to work on I'm never really scoring scenes like I usually score dramas and it's like the music is like for like passing time or for breaking things up it's not usually like underneath the scene it's like in between things and the music comes up loud and it's like has its moment to break things up and then it goes back to like quiet scenes so the music should be special and it kind of like it's dense like it you know it's like it's there to shake things up and it's there to kind of like give you emotional relief or something so doc it's totally different because it's just like it's just always there in the background and it's like it needs to like kind of be be able to go invisible but also stay interesting and not get repetitive it's totally like different totally different thing this chef's table is kind of different because the music is so like they space out the interviews so much that the music has a moment that the music can be kind of more busy but yeah I mean when I worked on the music for your doc it was like I remember being like man this is just a lot there's just a lot of music that needs to like be interesting enough but not to like two dense to where it's like like competing or taking grabbing your tension it's like weird it's like trying to create like a feeling that just stays there and then is a feeling that you can then switch to like mark even just to break up like let the audience know that this is we're switching into a different chapter or this is like I don't know to break up an interview or something like kind of like the music start stop switch right it's like a totally different practice I'm like I'm not as good at it I'm like still learning that yeah it's like I mean with design disruptors it's like we had 70 interviews like this is a talking head documentary we didn't end up including that many might have ended up being like 25 or so but that can come across very dry and so the music is one of the most important things that just kind of pulls you in it gets you the think a little bit it helps to complement the motion graphic scenes that you have the one thing that was interesting was the fact that there is there's themes that you create right and you do this with pretty much every score I think you make yeah like you have these kind of I think what you said was like hey let's just find like that one track that feels like the film like and actually maybe you can walk me through that process because I really like your process where sometimes people do scratch where they just kind of create kind of cheap recordings or low quality recordings but you were like from the very beginning recording high quality and sending in samples that would end up being used in that final film so yeah talking through that process and then creating those themes once I get into a film I'm going to have to score specific scenes and make music that just functionally serves whatever it is whether that be the storytelling of like a narrative and creating the world or whether just be moving things along and keeping energy and keeping like a tone for a documentary that stuff to me comes later the first process it's just figuring out what the music is and trying to find something special and I like to do that without I like to do that just based on just either some footage I've seen or the script if it's a narrative feature and just trying to find something that just generally feels like the project it's also a way music is extremely hard to discuss between two people before it exists because you may be talking about different things and so it's also a way to just kind of close the gap and make sure that the director and I are talking about the same thing so a lot of times kind of like we'll have early conversations and we're both get really excited like okay this is what we're going to do but then I need to go make some music and report back with it and see if that's what we were see if we were talking about the same thing and then be able to use comparative language of more this or less this or you know I like this aspect I don't like this aspect so I usually try and make music that's make a few pieces of music early on whether I properly record them or just do them with like scratch instruments just to kind of get a feel and closing the conversation and figure out what are like smaller musical world should be and then I like to kind of go do a second round of that that sometimes is specific to scenes or sometimes is just trying to think of like a bunch of different tones that may be in the cut and essentially just creating 10 music for the editor to use because the editor is going to need to throw some music in it's so hard to edit without music so you're going to have to put something in there and so essentially like the second phase after I've made a few things that kind of wittled down with a director like a couple of music that feel like they're the right world and right vibe for the the film then it's like then I kind of move on and expand on that trying make a bunch of 10 music essentially that the editor can use instead of using stuff from other films so we're actually at least working with and developing our own stuff instead of like building the cut around music that's going to change so it's like yeah yeah letting it kind of grow together yeah there's that thing called template where if you use somebody else's music in it generally you kind of become attached to that music that you originally used whether it's like you just get used to it yeah it's hard to see it when you watch a piece of video with a piece of with one piece of music in it a hundred times it's really hard to see it another way I don't know it's kind of like the it's kind of like seeing the fox search light logo come up or something and they just change the song and you'd be like wait that's not supposed to be it's supposed to like go done you know like it you get used to it even if it's not right you just get used to it so I always think it's helpful for everybody just to to kind of like feed some 10 music and yeah it's like that that thing you're talking about of of starting with music that just feels right that's um not even for a scene like this movie I worked on last year called The Glass Castle there's a piece of music that I made for that that it's kind of like one of the first things I made and the director was like this feels like the movie this feels like what I want this movie feel like and I was like I kind of like loved the piece and it was like okay cool this is kind of like our our like our guide and that piece of music is not in the film but I hold ideas from it throughout the whole time like little I kind of picked apart why that music was working and like why it felt special to us and like I ultimately couldn't find a place to put that specific piece of music in so that is just it still just exists it's just stray but it it was like a toolbox or for the rest of the creative process so that there's like when I'm going to solve the scene of like oh this needs to be more like we need to do something like tense or this needs to like I don't know something functional I'm like okay well what tools do I have from that we already kind of found so that's kind of that's like the process I like to work on um I feel like a lot of your your soundtracks can be very simple in terms of um the build sometimes one track might just be strings or it may at least be strings for 45 seconds and it's kind of building that tension um how do you go about because I know a simple song or a simple film or a simple edit never starts out simple and it's never obvious how do you go about getting to that point I always think it's way easier to edit down from from wealth than to try and like um I don't know scratch together like simple things to get bigger and so and I also think like it's really hard to come up with an original simple idea out of thin air I don't trust it usually like if I have like a little melody in my head and I'm like oh it's like a cool little melody so like work and it just came out of nowhere it scares me because I'm like where did I come up with that or is it like actually just something I heard somewhere because it's happened to me like early on in doing this like I had had some moments either songwriting or score writing where I like just had just was walking around and just had like idea just like click in like all this little melody like a piano and go home like write it in super like get into it and start working on it and then like a week later just click and be like that is an actual Andrew Bird song that I just recreated on my computer without realizing wow that it's just it was swirling in my head and so somehow I decided that I wrote it so that scares me that's scary you know the turnaround is fast doing score music so I don't trust those random stray ideas because they may just be versions of something else I've been listening to and I may not have enough time to realize that and I don't want to be the only one that doesn't notice that it's exactly a copy of something you know like that that stuff scares me and music's mysterious in that way it's kind of hard to keep track of like originality in that sense so I like to have a good I like to know where my influence is coming from I like to know where the ideas are coming from and I like to start by making things that are a little overboard so my approach usually is to try and score every single scene in a film that every place that it seems like there could ever you'd ever think to have music let's try music there I'm going to write it one or two ideas for it and then I'm going to make everything kind of like as full as I can think to do it and then we'll start taking away and you when you have something that you think is interesting and and like is like kind of more of a full-on composition and it's kind of more fleshed out and probably a little more heavy-handed like and direct you start to like take things away based on what it feels like it needs it usually gets more and more original because a lot of times it's like I'll start maybe I started with like a piano like writing some chords and then I kind of played something on top of that and then add some guitar on that and we had some strings and I'm like kind of building something up and then the last idea I have because maybe something feels like oh this feels like it needs to be more beautiful or something and so then maybe there's like some flutes going top of it then a month later we are whittling down or taking things away we end up taking away that piano that I started with and it taking away the guitar and now the flutes are like the thing and I'm building around the flutes and so it's like if something goes through a process like that then I kind of contrast that it is ours and it's unique to the film and I also contrast that it's going to serve the project creatively because we've given it enough time to see what's working and to like try it with and without different things and kind of wheel down like what is the what is the essential thing that's happening that's like working and let's just get rid of everything else and then it's going to be more interesting and it's going to be stronger and I also love working on films that don't need a lot of music because I don't know I like just films that feel real so those usually don't need tons of music and it's usually like more as like less is more so I feel like the that idea of like so say say you start out with the piano and you go through this whole progression of adding adding adding and like say the last thing you add is the flute and then eventually it comes down to it where almost the flute carries this whole song I think that goes against our intuition our intuition is the piano made the song so the piano has to stay the piano has to stay it was that always obvious to you and and how do you I think there's I forget who said it but it's like kill your darlings like the things that you love about something originally or what you might see as the best part of it you might eventually have to remove it because it doesn't it doesn't fulfill the story or the role it probably used to be but I get excited about it now and it's not hard for me to leave that stuff behind sometimes it is if I just really love it's more I usually get more stuck on like if I just write a piece of music and I'm like I love this and then the scene keeps changing and it's making less and less sense in that scene but I'm like damn I like that I like the way that music played for that scene before so I'm like we'll hold on to it maybe a little bit just because I like the piece and I don't want to see it get tampered with but I usually get excited for things to change because I usually know where that initial idea came from because like I said I like to track it I like to know that like I like to have inspiration that's left field like for instance when I was getting into the grateful dead there's like this chord change and it's like really like bluesy kind of like rock and tune that I heard that I was like I liked the way it made me feel and I wrote that like I used that chord change for this like really pretty slow or cestral piece for the glass castle and I like I don't really like worry about like ripping off that idea of going from this chord to this chord because I'm using such a different way I like having that anchor that I know that that's where that idea came from so I know I didn't just steal it from some other orchestral music that sounds really you know that's like in the same wheelhouse and then I like the idea because I do usually track those those like initial like what I like to do is I'll I'll like listen a lot of music I'll make some demos I'll start scratching down an idea and as soon as that idea is generally there I shut that session start something new I'll make 10 or 15 ideas and then I'll open those back up the next day sometimes I remember where I got that idea sometimes I don't but I'll like listen back to what I made and then see if there's anything interesting there or see if maybe start adding to it and like I'll kind of just move really quickly as a way of trying to like leave behind whatever it was that initially gave me that idea because I like growing beyond it and I like it's exciting to sometimes the very last like past that I do want to piece of music is the thing that makes it like special whereas like it'll be when I add some little like decoration that is the thing people here that's like oh that's a cool little thing so I kind of like doing that and I think it's also like a good process I think filmmakers especially ones that don't that are little filmmakers always tell me like I'm not a musician so I don't know it's going on but that's not really usually the problem it's usually more I feel like some filmmakers are just a little scared of music because it just feels like so like open-ended and so there'll be a piece that they like and they'll be like I really like this I like this about it and sometimes you get a little stuck on them more thinking like it's I think I like the piano in this and it's me trying to break like no I think you like just the overall energy of this I don't know that it needs to be piano and Sufian Stevens voice to like to get the feeling that you need and so helping workshop that and being like let's figure out what's working about that and try and do our own thing because um I don't know yeah the killer darling thing is like it can be tough if you are excited about something but for me usually it's just as it is the way towards something that is going to be more interesting um and I feel like the bolder I am with that I'm like learning that usually when I'm looking back at my work wherever I was the most bold in doing that is like has led to the music that I'm the most excited about later when I'm looking back and like that's a cool piece of music that we ended up with there and it's usually because we're like let's just cut off all the stuff that seems safe and like go with it so I get excited about that process because it's like it's what leads me to things that I feel like are exciting or or new yeah I think what's what how I approach it to is um you know we're talking about work that's that's digital that's not like you're literally not killing it and then you never see it again you do all right let's do a V2 of that what would it sound like if we did this or what would it look like if I recut the scene to feel like this and then usually I never go back to that V1 usually it's just I I'm like okay and I build upon that or I take something away but it's slowly evolving over time and knowing that usually your intuition your gut to take it forward or to change something is going to pay off in the end yeah and I think like I'm always a I'm a big advocate for um people working I think probably any creative contributor to a film to like the film world um I'm a big advocate for like making sure you're still doing a lot of your own work too and just doing a lot of work in general because it's not a great place to try and like get your entire creative vision as a human being out like it's really a specific I'm like trying to help tell a story and it's really specific and as soon as I need to like flex my creative muscles and like have it be my opus it's going to start cutting taking away from the story like this um nobody's coming to watch the movie because they like want to listen to the score they want to like they want to go through like a story so to me it's always I think I also don't really have that much of a problem like killing my babies and that since because like I just I stay really active on writing my own music and I just am always taking on new projects that like when I'm working on a piece of music and I love it and it gets cut I just know that I'm just going to use it for something else or I'm going to if it's not going to work for another film project then I'm going to adapt it into a song or into like a piece of music I can record on my own and so like every now and then sometimes like when I love a piece of music and it starts getting kind of stretched away from what I like about it and then it's and then it gets cut completely sometimes I'm relieved because I'm like okay cool now I can like now I can do that I can use that somehow yeah I can like preserve what I like about that and and do something else with it later um because sometimes something I really love if something I really get stretched away you know like the thing I like about it kind of gets stripped out and it gets it still gets used so it's kind of feels like it's we're going to you know that's done but that's going to be the final piece sometimes I go a little bone on that so I'd rather get cut and I can just like do that use that later right you can't take something that's like hey that sounds exactly like theme to that ones that one yeah but a little bit different it speaking of themes so we talked a little bit about themes and that was one of the things with design disruptors and and pretty much all the films you do I was watching some behind the scenes of the glass castle where you kind of have these sounds that come up throughout so a lot of times I'm sure most of the time you're not just creating different every different sounds for every single scene there's almost these emotional cues where you can pull back in that same music and then it kind of builds upon those feelings that you had previously and it kind of connects the dots in a lot of ways talk about how you go about the the that process of actually creating themes and creating a cohesive sound for yeah well I think it's really for me it really rests in that process that you were talking about that of like starting by just making some music that's not like okay this is for this scene this is for this like opening titles like it's just music for the movie and so it's like it's about establishing those rules early on and kind of figuring out what coming up with a few like flagship pieces of music that feel like they are like the right thing and for you know like for the glass castle I had to want that one that didn't even like end up in the movie but it like it was a big and former of like the tone and kind of instrumentation of things and so because to me there's like once once I am like involved like specifically involved in like the the edit and the storytelling aspect of a film the music it switches into this mode of being purely functional it's like when does it start does it creep in is it ominous at first in it switches or is it like because I'm trying to make up for things that aren't either the actors aren't quite pushing hard enough on or we're trying to help maybe there's an edit idea that happened later that's like different from the script and so it's like if they're trying to do something new and some music needs to like functionally help do that and so once I'm at that phase it's like let's just go go go and so if I don't have those rules established I don't have some kind of like a toolbox then it's just going to kind of be like anything goes whatever can make it work but if I have if I have like a toolbox of like instruments and little themes, melodies, chord changes things that we've kind of established just feel right for the film overall then every time I go in and it's like okay we want this to feel faster it's like okay well what could I use like we're not using drums in this maybe I could you you know like I think about what the tools are available and like how can I plug those into the needs so like if it needs more energy or it needs to be you know it needs to like feel suspenseful it needs to feel like soft it's like okay well what do we how can I stretch I just try and like limit my toolbox to like whatever that initial vibe is that we found and then if I'm kind of pulling from the same the same bin and the same like like a list of instruments and like themes each time that I'm addressing functional problem then things just kind of become cohesive because just sort of like limiting your language do you ever get intimidated by some of these projects I feel like like the glass castle and some of these films are not necessarily simple projects to walk into there's a lot of stake for some of these projects it appears like a lot of them you're working with big orchestras and you're working with a lot of different musicians and then you as the composer need to direct all this and bring it all together do you find the intimidating or it has it you know your experience kind of built upon itself and it it feels natural at this point I think to me what's all what feels the most intimidating is it's like as these projects grow and as there's more more cooks in the kitchen as far as like there's more money being spent there's more creative voices like above me I'm always the most intimidated by like am I going to be able to make something that I still love or am I going to get taken kind of like lost in the weeds of like notes and being and sort of getting bullied around by all the opinions and by like the stress and so it's like to me like the being in composers like half about just learning how to communicate like about and it's like I'm sort of coming in as like the the the the moderator for the music conversation is like half of my job of like trying to like figure out what everybody's really feeling because usually people when they give music notes or they give kind of music when they talk about the the vision for the music they'll use specifics that are not actually accurate for me they like and so it's like always trying to decode like what do you really want? I don't know like like it'll just a lot of times be like somebody like some kind of an exact saying you know mumford saying mumford and sons or something and me being like picturing actual mumford and sons of music in what we're talking about I'm like that it obviously that wouldn't work you know some like what do they mean by that like oh they like I don't maybe they just like the drum or something like just trying to figure that out so that's like what's intimidating is like walking and being like am I going to get to love the music I make for this or am I going to get like kind of lost in it and um I don't know I think um I've found that like my my confidence tends to help everybody also my openness I think like over confidence and just it's not a confidence of believing that I'm right about everything but just a confidence of being like I've been asked to do this I am the musical expert in the room and like I'm going to be the one that can figure out like what everybody wants and what's not working and um and being open to even like trusting that somebody else is probably going to see something about the music that I don't um but yeah I just kind of coming into like a confidence of like like I can do this is just going to be a certain amount of work um so yeah I mean I don't know there's an intimidating fact to it but I think that I just get so excited about it that is like kind of just get lost in it and don't really worry that much about it what makes you say yes to a project because at this point you're probably saying no to more projects and you say yes to so what is it about it that really draws you in to me I think I I just realized just just how intimate if I'm going to work on a project it's going to become an intimate part of my life for like a long period of time and I'm going to become I'm going to be like super in like just tight quarters with the director and so I'm also like another factor is that I'm always meeting a director at the very worst moment in their entire life which is that they've especially if it's an indie it's probably something that they've been trying to make for a very long time it finally happened probably on half the budget they wanted with different actors and you know like whatever like it's it was like a totally tough process and then after all of that they've just watched the first cut of the film like right before I come on board usually and so they're just are like I don't want anybody to see this I like I don't I'm like you're so drained you're so tired and you like it's all been for this imaginary thing and then you watch it and you're like that's what we made and you know an assembly long assembly cut usually it's like pretty painful to watch like just it's just a bad your first version is always this can be like a pretty bad movie you know so and usually without music and so like so I've just found that I just have to really care about the project or it's going to become a problem because whether it be like whether because I just don't believe the project is going to help anybody as a person like if there's no social justice or like empowerment aspect to it that's going to like keep me in or if there's no like creative excitement that it's just like a cool thing or it's like a person that I just really trust and like appreciate like if I don't really care then I know it's going to be a problem it's probably better for me to go make money doing something else because I'm going to get too drained and frustrated if I don't trust the director I don't like really think that what they made is like interesting or like worth existing or especially if I feel like it's like has an error of entitlement or like an unawareness of privilege or something then I'm like oh like I just can picture six weeks later just being like in the weeds being why do I why am I like even trying to contribute to this thing so to me it's all about like I would much rather I mean at some point I mean nice to like make real money but I'm like to me it's like about this is what I'm gonna spend my time on I'm gonna be able to pretty much recite this movie front to back at the end so like if I don't care about it on some level like then it's going to be a crazy thing to take on and I also think that like I think it's really dangerous to I think we all as creative trying to be in a career you have to you have to like know that you have to build the things and you have to make the steps and like put in your time to like build to where you want to go but I think it's I think you can get lost and at a certain point like where you know you're looking to where you want to go but at a certain point whatever you're doing is where you're going and it's what you're doing like like that path along the way to get to this career idea that you have like whatever you're doing now like it's what you're spending your time doing so like I would much rather work on stuff that I care about and then I think I'm gonna be excited about the music and then if it happens to be a good career move like great but there's nothing worse than spending months on a project that you hate that you don't believe needs to exist that you're not excited about creatively and then also doesn't do anything for your career so it's like why do you do that to me it's like all I think about is I'm like I'm gonna spend just a bonkers amount of time on this and all my friends are gonna ask why I'm not hanging out I'm gonna be like I'm working on this thing so like if I don't care about it then I don't know I'm doing it you can make money a lot faster you know like on like my hourly rate at the end of these projects is stupid you know so that's what I think about I'm like this is what I'm gonna do this is what I'm gonna I'm probably not gonna have much free time I'm gonna only work on this so do I care because if not I'll just like maybe find something else to do yeah the the projects that you do in that moment like today are gonna define what you work on and the projects you get and the clients that want to work with you in the future yes when I was early when it was early on I was doing a lot of weddings and they're just came a point where like I was doing it for I enjoyed it and I was like learning the craft and it was there was some fun and I was pretty young and I learned so much through that but then it got to a point where I was like okay you know what I made some good money doing this but if I just keep doing weddings that's just all that's what I'm gonna be known for that's all I'm gonna do I know a lot of friends that got started out making music videos because they knew a couple musicians and they were able to build upon that but then they kind of they got stuck in that lane where they're like I don't enjoy making music videos it doesn't fulfill me anymore but it's very hard to do a corporate shoot or it's very hard to do a feature documentary when you haven't had that experience before so whether you're doing a passion project you're doing it for fun or you're doing it for free whatever it is if you're working on that now that's likely gonna be able you're gonna be able to use that to kind of leverage the next project yeah yeah and I think like the safest place if you're like a truly like a creative year an artist like then I think that the the safest place is make everything a passion project and then like some of it pays some of it doesn't but like yeah it's hard it's you can't expect people to you can't expect to like shoot 20 weddings and then have somebody be like oh you're really good at that can you direct like this really cool like feature documentary about this like person from Syria or something like that's not gonna happen it's so yeah it's I think that's true like it's like what you gotta be spending the time doing what you're gonna what you want to be doing and and making it good like it it's I think there's like it it's like we're talking on earlier you don't want to feel like like like you complaining about having work that that's like pretty good that's like pretty close to what you want to be doing but ultimately if you really really want to be doing something creative it's kind of just I don't know it's kind of like friends owning getting friends owned by your own creative outlet like where you're like you kind of getting to do it but you just want to be doing the full version of what you like doing and it's like if the career's not gonna do that for you then maybe you just got to do it on your own and make money doing something else like that's that's how I always felt about it and most of my heroes my creative heroes didn't like take the gigs early on and then trying like work them back around to like creativity they like the bands I like and the filmmakers I like they just made the stuff they were making and then it grew it became like there became money around it there became credibility around it but now it's completely on their terms you know the directors that I like like their shoots like I feel like it's just their their funders are like whatever you do works just do your thing you know it's like they took the they took the long route but now they're getting to like they're just getting more resources to make exactly what they want to make and that to me I think it's like that's the route that I'm always trying to like go and if that turns into me realizing that like it's not gonna be something I could do during the day it's gonna have to be a weekend thing for me then that's fine I always I also think like you have to keep the lights on so I'm always like just don't buy expensive lights you know I love that yeah was there a moment when you realized that this could work that you could be a musician and a composer and you could you didn't have to have you know a regular day job yeah there was because I was like always I'm like a total hack I didn't go to music school I don't know how to compose like a barely reading music like I'm a band guy that just started writing songs because I was like trying to figure out the world and then started like loving it's sort of like I liked I was making folk music because I had a guitar but all I'd want I just love Bjork and I love cigarettes and I loved anything with an orchestra and then there was like a day that they clicked like I could make music I want to make music more like that but I never wanted to do music for work because it was always a little too sacred for me and then I had a friend who hired me to do music for like a feature doc and it was totally exciting and I was really creatively fulfilled but just slightly less precious about it than I am with my own personal music that I was like didn't mind taking notes and I liked just the school project aspect of like they're being this specific need and kind of a specific like parameters to like it's always like feeds me creatively to have these kind of limitations so or just like a starting place so I was like wow this is really fun and I just never thought about film scoring because like I said I just didn't watch movies growing up I just never thought I just I didn't ever think about it so as soon as I sort of realized that that was like a world and I also kind of like quickly realized that there's not a lot of money in music in the way that I was making it but there is and probably will always continue to be some money in video and film I'm like trying to get it I tried to get it on that money and like so I was at the time I was a high school teacher I taught high school for three years I was teaching graphic design it's like kind of random that's why I had to school for oh yeah yeah so I was teaching at a high school I loved that it was like it was cool and great for an artist you know I get off at three and you have a three day weekend like pretty much every month you get all the summer off like it's it's a great gig as like a person that has like a you know a large hobby or creative side like being a teacher's great but it was also scary because it was around 2008 2000 I think I'd quit in 2010 everybody's like I don't know you have like you're on your way to like a 10 year like government funded job like probably should hang on to that one you know but I didn't have any debt and I just was kind of like I don't know I feel like I'm young enough that I could like try this and fail and whatever because teaching was like it's like that thing where I'm like it's great and I don't want to complain about it but it's definitely like kind of like I like not a very I'm like a kind of a private quiet person that like doesn't like loud noises and doesn't like dirty things and like I don't know like just the amount of just yelling and like hot cheetos all over my stuff and whatever as a high school teacher I was like I think I would like to I would this is fine but I do think there's maybe a it's not my ideal world and so I just I saved up a year's worth of money and then I just quit and I like just started working for free for people and then I drained that money I like I was like I'll be safe if I just if I I kind of felt like I had a few avenues where I could get some work and like start to do some music for like people's like non-profit videos and stuff which is how I started and then I I'm like I'll save up a year like a kind of like a year's worth of money and I'll have that as backup you know and then like a year later I was out of that money because I definitely didn't make any money doing what I was doing but it was worth it because I I did I was like slowly starting to get little gigs when I get like a few hundred bucks here and there to make some music for these non-profit videos are like little like promo things you know nothing great nothing like exciting but just like chance to practice and enough money that it was like I felt like okay like I can stay in this and then it slowly slowly built into something that like I was bartending to like so you know I just kind of like pieced it together and then it finally I know I pushed pretty hard to get here you know to be honest but and after the first couple of years where yeah there were a lot of late nights and early mornings yeah like I just it was like I felt like I was working harder than anybody I knew and I was like I was like making negative money so it was like I was like spending money to do these projects basically and because I need to like buy the equipment and like stuff like I just I had no idea what I was doing and I was coming up here a lot I lived in San Diego at the time so I felt like I was everybody it was like my early 20s I felt like everybody was having like a great time and I was having a great time too but I felt like I was working my ass off and I was like I have no idea if this is going to pay off and I don't even I'm like I was also very aware of like as hard as I've worked like I'm really bad at this like I you know like I versus somebody just went to school for it or just I don't know it's been doing it longer like you know I don't have that much to show for so it was kind of a grind but um looking back on it I definitely I just trust it like I I don't see myself as a person who would usually quit that teaching job but it surprises me that I did that which makes me like realize that I probably really deep down knew that it like it wasn't so I could I saw myself being like I saw myself like retiring from teaching as an older person being like oh so I ended up just teaching that's that's what I did like I felt like it was that where I was like this is just I'm just ending up doing this and it scared me so I think like I cared enough some reason to it's like quit that job with no idea of if it was going to work and then also like I think I I'd like loved it enough to put the time in like it wasn't that much of a it was kind of a no-brainer to put that much time in like trying to learn because I just really like it so um and I think I'm in a new chapter now that where I'm realizing that that grind is and it's not over I'm still like work is so inconsistent it's terrifying but um it's just like highs and lows but uh there's like I'm now in a mode room I'm realizing like I need to slow down and really just like enjoy the work and not be like okay cool I got this locked down I can do good job in this movie and I'll see what's next like like so really like remember that I love doing this and and um sometimes like recording days I just get really stressed because it's just a lot to get done and there's really like no wiggle room to fail or if I forget to record something like that's like a real thing you know like I have everybody in the room you just I just wasn't organized enough if I like forget to record a piece of music then like do that's the in credits like it's gonna we don't have you know like yeah so like you're you're renting out the studio space yeah come back in there yeah so like I've I get in that mode and so like it's it has been a grind for such a long time that now I'm like in a cool phase realizing that it's like time to like realize that I'm here people are trusting you with their projects and to like just like love it and just like remember to remember that this is what I enjoy doing and just like super like just embrace it and then like enjoy the enjoy every moment even like the more stressful ones you know yeah I do I completely agree and I have gone through that same path that same trajectory where I do the first couple of years it is a struggle and there there's it's you're working your ass off and even now I've kind of like reinvented myself and started to do the podcast and create a original content and I'm making zero dollars doing this I'm still making films and doing stuff on that's like that will make me money in the future and that will like keep the lights on but at the same time I'm like I'm starting over and there's a lot of work in the beginning even restarting something or starting something new you have to kind of understand that it's gonna take a few years before things will actually fall into place and before you'll actually be able to make a consistent and sustainable living from it but you're right that you have to actually enjoy it in the moment and everyone's in the wild just take a step back and realize like this is what I'm meant to be doing and this path is so much more exciting and is so much more fulfilling than if I did something that I didn't really love yeah and it only makes the work better I mean it is one scary but kind of cool aspect of like doing what we do which is bumping around a different clients and different collaborators because as much as I'm building on old things and I'm getting more and more trust because of projects that's done before or whatever when I work on a new project with new people like they don't know how I work and like in a certain sense I do have to like sort of prove myself or like I put it on myself to make them feel like that was a good call to hire me and that they like they got somebody dependable that was like that you know elevated the thing they're trying to make and I think the moment you kind of stop hustling on that like it it'll just walk right away because there's plenty of people it like it's an intimidating thing about being in this city that's also motivating you're like there's definitely somebody else that can do just to get a job on this you know like a hundred percent like probably a few doors down so it's like it's a good reminder to kind of just stay hungry and remember and like remember every time I don't know every time that I get a new project that it's like that's a gift and that's like something that somebody's trusting me with and to not really take that lightly and to like I think I think like I'm as like an extremely privileged person for like a lot of reasons that I that are beyond my control I think it's really important to think about you think about people who have things that you kind of wish you had that like you're like how it's like they just got lucky and they have they have money and you're they have like they have these connections with people or you know like must be nice like they want to know there's always you can look a few floors up and see people have things that you kind of you're like that it would be easier for me if I had that and I think the most annoying thing is to look a few floors up to somebody who has been given more than you for whatever reason and to see that they're not even like stoked on it and they're not doing anything with it that's super frustrating and I think it's important to realize that in a position I am both as just a person who like ends up in it up having a creative career that's working and also just honestly it's like a white man in America that like there are so many people looking at me being like must be nice you have like you're able to just walk straight into that and so to take it for to like have it and know that for a lot of reasons it's not something I like earned from like scratch versus somebody else so like I've been given it and then to not even enjoy it or take it like seriously or like love it or even worse like complain about my situation is pretty annoying to like it's just it's really like brazen to me to people who would be like I wish I had those things that you have and you don't even care or you're like you're not even doing like a great job on it like that's that's like that's annoying so I don't want to be that person yeah I think I think all of us in some way rely on luck and circumstance because you're never just going to make it by yourself there's always going to like for me like growing up in a middle class family with parents that love me I lucked out to be raised in that situation when I went to high school and you know I had a great video department where I got to learn editing and shooting and at the morning announcements like I was so lucky to get that and then like throughout I could look back at all these moments where I'm like just been given this gift of being in the right place at the right time which I have no credit in taking those as like something I did but between that you have to put in the work and you have to actually hustle and you have to work your ass off and I don't know I feel like if for somebody who's been given everything and who's a few flights up I still think like if you want to be happy if you want to be filled if you want to enjoy your life you've got to put in the work you've got to actually enjoy what you do and you know what I mean a lot of times yeah people might look at those who have more monetarily or more status or higher up on the status but if you're not happy if you're not fulfilled then it doesn't matter and it's like what is it all for like why do you have this thing yeah yeah I think like you get caught up on that stuff and it's uh um I think like getting to be creative it's just it's just like a wild and wonderful like gift and I feel like is it's kind of like as soon as you sort of like leave that mentality behind like you kind of feel like you end up just sabotaging your own career anyways like when you start caring more about your career then the thing that you make then your career just kill itself because you're like the thing you make is not gonna end up being good because you're like worried or you're like worrying about what it's gonna get you rather than just the actual work that you're being trusted with right that's great um why don't we you want to do quick questions and got a couple questions here that I ask almost the episodes and then we'll wrap it this up let's see quick questions what book has had the biggest impact on your life um late who life lately I read this book called The Warms of the Other Suns it's like one of my favorite books I've read um it just completely opened my mind to so many things it's it's chronicles a 70 year period of migration of black people out of the south to escape Jim Crow laws it's a research book this woman spent like 10 years researching it but it's um and so it's kind of a history book but she wrote it into three real life narratives of three people kind of had pretty different circumstances one person moved here to LA when he moved Chicago one to move to New York and it's just like a really beautiful it reads like a Steinbeck novel it's like it's like you can't put it down it's like beautiful but super like eye opening and um I'm really not hung up on that I just like I read that book like maybe two years ago and I like closed it and I was like that's like the best book I've ever read wow so that's like that's the one that's definitely like right now is like the the like pinnacle book in my mind right now it's maybe not like there's maybe some other books from my past but that one's like yeah the one that's got you to think shallow a little bit differently yeah what one skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others haven't um probably just my like my like I think I'm like an organ I'm like one of the only musicians I know that's just like extremely organized and like like I operate sometimes more like a producer than than like a creative that's just something that I know about myself and so like I think that's been hugely helpful in just getting you know when I get hired for film I'm kind of like a one-man show usually like they just give me money and they get music in their sound mix and so there's like a lot of pieces in between and so that's like that's been a huge huge asset in just like being like good at like scheduling and like kind of like budgeting and thinking I don't know just managing like the nuts and bolts that stuff's like I think been been like a huge part of like my trajectory right you're essentially running I mean you're running your own business yeah and I enjoy it like like I like like when my wife and I travel like I like planning like researching planning out like budgeting the time you know like I like doing that stuff so I think I've like it's not that many musicians are like a lot of my musician friends are like sort of the opposite so I feel like I've sort of noticed that about myself and just just like rocking it out just being like trying to be a super on top of things what's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow? I think you just I think there are ways of finding out whether or not you're being true yourself whether you're like truly listening to yourself and I think that's like whatever you can do to to make sure that you truly love what you're doing and that you're not being swept away by other like culture things that other people around you are trying to do like I think essentially if you take a look at most of your creative heroes probably all of them are just really true to themselves and making things that are like putting something unique out in the world because they weren't trying to copy somebody that are trying to like be true to like their own voice until like and recognizing that it's probably worth while to somebody else for them to just say what's on their mind so I think like trying to like really zero and to your own listen to yourself or what you care about both in like what you're excited about and also just what your standards are and not compromising things that kind of make you feel a little gross like listening to that and just being like I said before you know there's nothing worse than spending a bunch of time only to try and go up a ladder and then just not even get up the ladder like spend the time doing the things that you think are like worthwhile and that it's kind of like pay off in one way or another for you I'll said and last question what's the best way for people to connect with you online where can they find your stuff not on social media because I'm like a ledite troll that has been used Instagram or Facebook I have a Facebook friend but I don't personally use Facebook um I have a website jlpwest.com pretty much all my music is there and there's an email address that's posted on there if you want to anybody wants to email me I'm like I'm all about email I'm like very not in social media that is your social media yeah cool man thanks so much for being on the show thanks for having me all right thanks for listening to this podcast I appreciate your support I hope you got some value from Joel and myself on this one I know that when I worked with Joel personally on our documentary design disruptors he was just kind of a he had this vast knowledge about creativity and how to how to work together so I definitely learned a lot working from him so do you like the podcast do you are you getting some value out of it if so there's a couple things that you can do to help you can leave a rating a review on iTunes just search the ground up show iTunes in Google and leave a nice little review or rating that helps tremendously the second thing you can do is is to tell your friends about the show so if you if there's a podcast that you really enjoyed and you know a creator that would get value from it send it to them the word of mouth stuff is how I grew my freelance business and it's hopefully how I will grow this podcast lastly you can contribute a question to the show so send in a video or audio of your question to hello at matdevil.com I'll get your voice on the show your face on the show and you and I together can can help all of us get to the bottom of our creative struggles thanks for listening and I'll see you next week
