# Ground Up 059 - Take Action w/ Adam Sjoberg
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=prVQN4gIA5U
Get the podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

Adam Sjoberg (http://looseluggagemedia.com/) is a documentary & commercial filmmaker that’s traveled to over 60 countries working on both independent & full scale productions. His first doc Shake the Dust, executive produced by NAS, chronicles the influence of breakdancing and its ties to the slums & ghettos around the world.

We talk about breaking free from the matrix and defining your own path, he gives some of the most practical & actionable advice I’ve heard from aspiring storytellers, and the importance of learning the business side of an creative path.

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, adam sjoberg, set life, shake the dust, 
**Date:** 2018-05-16

## Transcript
 You do well in any career, and especially in the film world, when you can kind of step outside the matrix or realize that everyone's kind of playing a game. There's rules to learn, and there's rules to break, and that success kind of comes from learning when to keep the rules and when to realize that they're complete bullshit. Adam Showberg is a documentary and commercial filmmaker that's traveled to over 60 countries working on both independent and full scale productions. His first documentary, Shake The Dust, Executive Produced by the Legendary rapper, Nause. Chronicle is the influence of break dancing and its ties to the slums and getos around the world. We talk about breaking free from the matrix on this week's podcast and how to define your own path. He gives some of the most practical and actionable advice I've heard for aspiring storytellers. And we also discuss the importance of learning the business side of your creative path. So that's something that I try to cover on as many of these podcasts as possible because if you're not getting the business side down, if you're not figuring out how to make money from your art, then you are likely not going to be able to keep creating it. Do you have a question for me or my guest? If so, you can send it in to HelloAtMatteDevelop.com. Record a short audio or video, keep it under two minutes and ask me whatever is on your mind can be personal to you, to me, to my guests. Just want to try to help you guys get to the bottom of the the the derudgery that you're going through. So again, send those into HelloAtMatteDevelop.com. I truly love hearing from you guys. I also love hearing from you in the form of an iTunes review. These iTunes review have been hugely helpful. I can't under I can't think of the word right now because I've been working all day and I'm tired. I have been getting a lot of these reviews and ratings and through iTunes and it's been like popping up the ground up show on iTunes on the business charts. It's been in the top 200. We've been like 130 for a bit and I know that these have been helping. So if you can do that, head over to iTunes, leave a review 15 seconds. That's it. That's all it takes and you can help us change the world or maybe just help somebody on their path. Maybe that. Maybe we can just do that. All right. I hope I'm hoping this podcast will help you on your path as well. This is Adam Showberg. Enjoy the podcast. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matt Diivella and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. Cool Man. Well, thank you so much for coming on the podcast. I'm sure having me appreciate you being here. I feel like it's exciting any time they get another filmmaker, especially another doc filmmaker. Because I feel like there's a lot that we have to share in common. And one of my favorite parts about these conversations is like the struggles and the things that we go through to figure out how to tell real. Yeah, and it really is. And like, so it's for me that's been the most rewarding part of the podcast to be able to have other doc filmmakers on to be like, Yeah, man, like it's not as easy as it looks and a lot of times when you put a film out there, put a project out there. The decisions seem obvious when you're looking at the entire thing cut together and you're like, Oh, yeah, of course that's the way it is. Yeah. But then to actually see the behind the scenes and to see like what it took to make something is a whole other story for sure. Cool. So we'll get into that. But like for now, like what what are your days look like now like the past. Couple of months, what even working on and what kind of projects you've been digging into. It's a great question. So the last few months, I have two producing partners that I work with as well. And so sometimes when I say we, that's what I'm referring to. But the last few months have been developing really. I'm working on scripts for features, non documentary feature film, which is exciting, developing documentary, either potentially a series. But we're still trying to figure that out. But working on a documentary about my own experience. It's a little bit more of a personal story and dealing with race and issues of like, you know, my own family's history in the deep south. As my ancestors were slave owners, just kind of talking about some of these hard conversations around race that we're having in American. As a white male, what does it mean to think about these things for myself and what are my responsibilities? So that's that's a project that's like going to take time to develop. I've been dreaming it up for years of a little bit of cash in the door to develop it. But we're still trying to figure out what it looks like. That's a fascinating topic. And I'm sure a challenging one. Yeah, a very nuanced conversation to have. But also like, like you said, that seems like I've never heard somebody even having that conversation to be like, yeah, let's talk about, let's talk about the shit that went down and my ancestry and, you know, my parents. Yeah, I mean, I think there's such races. Obviously, it incredibly important thing to talk about in any country. We are country has a long, fraught history with it. And I think that in order to move forward, like, there's all of this sort of political posturing around both sides of the issue of race. You know, there's people that think that we're past it somehow. There's people that, you know, and I think where I and where I land is like, we can't actually move past something that we can't talk about and be. And we can't be afraid to mess up and how we talk about it. Like we need to be able to move forward and put one step in front of the other and actually have hard conversations and be gracious with one another when we say something wrong or when we. Are wrong, you know, so that by making it really personal, I hope that it can be an example of how a conversation can be had around the topic, right? Well, because in a lot of ways, we're a very reactionary culture. And because of the way, man, like if you just look at the way media has changed over the past 15 years, it's so fragmented, it's all over the place. You're not just going to one source to find out the truth. And so then, you know, if somebody says something that maybe sounds a little bit taboo, or just sounds like uncomfortable and you're like, well, look at this person speaking from a place of privilege or whatever. And you're like, I'm just trying to have a conversation, but then there's like 15, 20, 100 blogs or bloggers that are going to say, oh, that's going to be a story. I got one headline. Yeah. And then it's like, oh, that really hurts the conversation. Well, and I think, you know, in a sense, as again, as a white privilege American male, like, I'm not intimidated by times upward, but the idea that I've had my turn or something or that white men have had their turn. And now, we need to open up space for other people to have a voice. That has been a big part of my entire career is trying to create opportunities for other people to tell their story. But that doesn't mean, so I think in some ways, my role as a white male is to step aside in certain ways, or to make room for other people, but it's also to have, I think it's not to just shut up. You know, I think white men also need to be outspoken and ask questions and be open-minded and help have those hard conversations and be an example. I don't know. Yeah. I think, well, it's like, I think we need to start looking at people on an individual level. And you know what I mean? And you know, to look past race, obviously, that is the end goal. But then to do that, like you said, you need to talk about it. So let's talk about it. But also, let's not discriminate because you happen to be born a certain race or a certain color, be it white or otherwise. So start off the podcast. It's just way into race to white guys on a podcast, waiting in the hardest topic you can have. We just gave them the headline for the blog. Now that's cool because I don't talk about that kind of stuff all the time. So it's nice to always delve into it a little bit. I feel like there's always something to learn. And especially about topics that I don't often talk about. But anyway, let's go back. Like I want to learn about how you became a filmmaker. When did you first start taking an interest in film and thinking that this is something you wanted to do? Well, I was always a really creative kid. And I literally like saved my lawnmower money to buy a video camera when I was a kid. And I always sort of thought in movies and made documentaries about my grandma or whatever. Made horror films like with my friends. But for some reason, filmmaking seemed really inaccessible. It's about the time I was graduating from high school. I'm going to college. It didn't seem like a logical possibility. But then I came to California and actually studied photography, which somehow seemed more practical and more pragmatic. And slowly sort of shifted my opinion on what was possible. Like coming just moving out to California in general as a kid who grew up in the Midwest and Indiana was very eye-opening. The world started to feel like there was kind of anything was possible in a way. And there was a very transformative season of my life where I was like, oh, I can really go anywhere. I can do anything which transitioned really well in the documentary filmmaking because I was doing the photography thing. I graduated from college and really quite off the bat was brought on to a small documentary film team in Thailand where I was the still photographer. I was just there to kind of, it was a scrappy team and I was just there to take photos of behind the scenes and stuff that could be used later. And that opened up the door for basically constantly traveling with nonprofits and organizations doing work to help, you know, doing photography work. And while I was doing that, this was in 0809, I, the Mark II came out. The technology changed the camera that I was using to take photos could now shoot film and or video and now this latent thing that it always kind of been within me and that it was really natural to me. I just started exercising, you know, I started doing little short video projects for people and the idea for my first documentary came around. And I just started on my own dime running around and filming that whenever I could do the Mark II just change everything. But it was for me, I was resistant to to get it because I had a Canon XHA one which was like. So you started out from the get go in production in video production. Yeah, film was my thing like I when I was in high school, I got a Sony handy cam and I would just record projects and I graduated high school in 2006. So that's like all they had at the time and then you know, recorded a little mini dv tape and then I. It was a couple years later just saving up money working at a grocery store. What grocery store. AMP nice. How you know here. Super fresh. They're kind of they actually went bankrupt. It's actually a long story and I've talked about it on the podcast, but I was sued for $7 million for making a parody rap video in the grocery shop. Okay. Um, I need to catch up on that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's called produce paradise. And this was like back when YouTube was first starting and I was like, I was actually really into sketch comedy at first. And I guess what I really wanted to do. And nobody would film me. You know what I mean? I mean, I didn't know anybody who had a camera who was good at filmmaking. So I was like, oh, I'll learn it myself and then maybe I can put myself in sketches. Made that video, got sued. And then it's so bizarre, but then like a year later we're going through arbitration and everything that goes with something like a big lawsuit. Like a big lawsuit like this. And then they ended up saying, listen, if you guys just don't ever work for us again. We'll give you and your brother $2,500 each. And we were like, uh, yeah, sure, deal. And then wow, I took that money and then bought my Canon XHA1, which is a professional. It was a professional camcorder camera. Still shot to tape, but it was like leaps and bounds above the Sony camera. And it was also like top line at that time for that level, you know, for a camera that costs $3 to $5,000. Even then I feel like, you know, to go a step higher, there wasn't much there. I mean, not that I could afford a $10,000, $15,000 camera. But now I feel like the market's opened up where there's tons of cameras in that category. It's unbelievable, really. So then, yeah, it was, it was that. And then I had that camera all the way up until the 5D Mark II came out. And I remember being kind of hesitant. It seems like a step back just because of the way it looked up like judging this camera, because it looks like a photography camera. And I'm like clients are going to take me seriously. Well, and it always felt strange to me that we had this camera that could shoot, that could shoot video. But you had to do so many things to the camera to make it function like a proper video. I mean, there was so much aftermarket or third party stuff that came out to transport both on an audio level. And the rig that you had to kind of set up for it. Which is really just the way I don't think I realized at the time because I started photography. That's just the way it is anyway. I mean, when you have any camera, you build it out and depending on the circumstances and what you're shooting. But, right. But it certainly, like, I see the value and I shot my first doc on a Canon C300. And like, one, just me, just one person running around with a couple wireless microphones and a boom mic attached to my camera. And the fact that it had everything integrated and, you know, the quality alone. But like, I have two XLR inputs. You know, like, I could just clip everything to this one camera. Just keep it built out. I'm like, I love the C300. I love the C300. I miss it. I miss it. Like, well, I'm actually in the point now where I'm trying to figure out what camera to get next. I actually got a red last year. I got the Epic W. Nice. When I was planning on doing more corporate work. And then literally, like, a couple months after I bought it, I was like, yeah, I'm going to stop doing client work. Yeah. And now just sold it. I still have, you still have. You read it out. I like to use it to shoot YouTube videos. It's so bad. It's so over the top. It's not minimalist at all. Yeah. I'm actually, yeah, I would love to talk to you about that later. Because I don't, I just moved to LA. So I need to find rental houses. I don't know who would rent it out. Personally, I don't know if I want that time and energy. Yeah. So yeah, to have to have to worry about, like, then you got to make sure it's insured. And there's potential that I could get damaged. And it's a business, basically, when you start running out your gear. Yeah. But so now I'm just kind of, I don't know, what's the camera to go to now? Like, is there one that you use a lot or that, Oh, man. I mean, the eight sevens. I don't, so so much of the time now, I have a DP on the jobs that I have, where I kind of, we have a conversation about what makes the most sense. And I lean into them as being the more informed of the two of us now. You know, where I say, okay, what do you think? And I kind of go with their gut. But last year, I would say we use the Alexa, any of the Alexa's, the most, from the mini to the, now I'm going to, I'm going to seem really ignorant on models here. But, yeah, I forget without the mirror. Yeah, that's like a higher end. But like, how much? Like, what's the, the workflow look like and post? Because that's the big thing where I'm like the red. You can't shoot a documentary on it. And you can't, certainly shoot, can't shoot an independent file. If I was, if I was, because I'm not in the middle of production on a documentary right now, if I was, I honestly don't know what I would do now. I think I would probably play around with a couple different setups. And I've screen-shotted other, other doc filmmakers recently, some of their setups to do some more research. Because it, I don't think I would shoot with the cannon anymore. If I was going to do a feature, if I was diving back into a feature right at this moment. But I don't know. Yeah. It would kind of depend too. You know, the last doc that I did was 2000. I mean, we were shooting in 2014 and 15 was maybe the last stuff that I got. And we shot on kind of everything. It was the nature of the doc. We had everything from cell phone footage to count to my mark 3 to Sony, that I don't even know the model of it was a DP that I hired out of Korea. So we kind of had to shoot on everything. And it has, you know, not a super clean look as a result, but it was a political doc. And it didn't kind of merit the same visual consistency. So yeah, I don't know. I would ask you the same question. Well, I think that the 4K is now a big deal. And especially for you, you're looking at end deliverables like Netflix Hulu. These, the distributors want 4K. So a project I'm working on now. We actually shot it with C300 Mark II's 4K. We did, it was like a live talk. So we had five cameras set up. And then it's this kind of live talk that was done. Yeah. And then we're going to intercut that with like cutaways. So these guys childhood and how they grew up and some thoughts on consumerism. So I went with the C300 Mark II. It was kind of like, again, a conversation. You have to know how that came out. Yeah, it looks beautiful. It looks great. And that was a conversation with the DP. And it was like, you know, this is the budget we have. And he's like, well, you know, if you had the budget, we could go with the, you know, Alexis and, you know, but then the thing is like, and when you're doing a big production like this, especially when you're putting a lot of energy into one or two. Today's a filming. You have to rent out that gear, which costs certain amount of money. But then you also need the insurance to cover 200,000, 300 actually. We literally, we had coverage for 200,000 dollars in gear. And that was with the C300 Mark II. Imagine if you had like a 80,000 dollar camera. Yeah. Then you have to have your talking like 500, 600,000 dollars in coverage. And like that would cost way more money. You know, when we, my, my company, we do some commercial production. And we had a lot of these kind of one off two, three day shoots, where we have, you know, our blind item for rentals is 20, 30,000 dollars for the rental, not for the cost of the equipment. That's obviously exorbitantly higher than that. And so eventually we were able to just, we, we just bought our own insurance. And we make some of it back. You, and I've talked about gear. And, but we will, we will probably talk a little bit more about gear. Because I think it's, it's important for me to project. Well, and I actually have one more question about that for you, which is, if you were on a complete running gun, one man show, you're out in southeast Asia filming this, you know, something that you have to be really, really scrappy on what would your setup be. But you want it to look cinematic and look good. Yeah, I think, I think maybe it's, well, I, honestly, like, I wouldn't do these cameras. The Sony A7S is, yeah. I just think that they're, they, they don't have enough built into them, that you have to have too much assembled. But then also you think about, like, running gun, you want to be able to actually have something that, that feels comfortable in your hands, and it's got some weight to it. It's too small, though, so it doesn't have enough weight to it. Yeah, it's way too small. Yeah. And then, you know, I haven't done a whole lot. Uh, I mean, the last time I did that running gun type doc was a few years ago. And that was when I did it with the C300, and, like, that for me was perfect. So whatever the equivalent of, what would the equivalent? It might be the C300 Mark 2 now with the 4K. I think that would probably be my option, although I feel like we're on the verge, but I always feel like we're on the verge of, like, oh, there's gonna be a new camera that's just gonna wipe that out. Yeah. But the FS7 to me is too clunky. It's too big. It's got the gy rating arm. It's just like too much. I'm like, uh, and it's like, it's heavy as shit. I'm like to C300 is so compact that I would probably do that. It's got two XLR inputs, and I'd go with the boom as well. So that way I have one or two wireless mics if I need it. And then what I didn't utilize enough was the 24 to 105 Canon lens. It's a great lens. Right. It's a great lens. It's not macro. Yeah. It doesn't matter most of the time. Yeah. You don't need it much. The biggest problem is that it's like a F4. So it's, you can really only use it in daylight. Yeah. You can't use it at night. So I would do that, and then maybe like take a 24 millimeter or 50 millimeter for low light situations or interviews. Yeah. But then I feel like that could probably get. That's like it. Yeah. Be pretty compact. You wouldn't need a lot. Although it's to me now. It's like, I don't know if I, I'm open to doing that kind of stuff. Still like that running on stuff. But I have a preference towards not like I want to. I want three. I want a person like three person crew for a shoot. Yeah. I think it would depend for me. I, I, I, I would do something if it was like really exciting. Like if someone, yeah. If it was like, you're going to go into the jungle with this like crazy guy. I don't know. For the experience of it, I would absolutely do it. I don't want to do something that feels unnecessarily, uh, encumbered by. I don't know. Like I wouldn't do a run and gun thing just to like, for the paycheck, you know, just because I'm like, I need, I need to do this. Exactly. I would have to really care about the project. That won't be passionate about it. And, um, I mean, there is something, you know, as much as I like hiring out other DPs and cinematographers. I'm still very much connected to the active shooting. And there is something to say about like, having, like, having control of the camera. Mm-hmm. If you're creating an intimate kind of piece. Yeah, for sure. You think about something like, did you see weiner? Yeah. So fantastic. I don't know documentary. And like, honestly, like, not the best cinematographers in the world. And like, the audio was pretty shaky. Yeah. But the story was incredible. And it was personable. It's like, you know, you hear their voices. The filmmakers voices towards the end. And you see the interaction between like Anthony looking up at the filmmakers. So it's like, there's an intimacy to that. You seem to regret from like, the moment the camera was on, he's even to regret. But he just allowed everything to get shown, which is my blog. Yeah, the best part is like, yeah, one of the filmmakers is like, why are you letting us do this? So good. But yeah, no, I think there's an intimacy there. I mean, I think as a documentary director, you have to be a DP. Even if you have a DP like on my second film, I had a variety of DPs that I was working on. But I shot a lot of it myself too. There was just me and this North Korean artist. So there was like tons of hours where I just hung out in the studio with him. He was painting and I was filming. And it was just this like dance of just the two of us. And a relationship that developed over like socky that probably wouldn't have happened the same way if there'd been a big crew the whole time. Right. Yeah, I did talk to a doc filmmaker early on with the podcast who was like, you know, I like to spend a day or two at least just like hanging with somebody getting to know them before you start filming. Yeah. Just because there are walls that people build up and when you're capturing when you're filming somebody, especially in a doc style, or you're following them around, there's not much opportunity for you to talk. Yeah. So when I think especially, I've always done that, but it's especially because I think it would be that would maybe be different under different circumstances. Like if I was doing like a takedown piece on some politician, it might be different. But most of the docs I've done, I'm working with people that, or the subject matter, have been sort of objectified in some way. And I don't want to further that. Like I want to, I want to make sure that they know that I'm there to help them tell their story and not try and like capitalize on their story, or something like that. Right. Take advantage of it or take advantage of their circumstances. So I think it's important. And you know, my second documentary was about a North Korean who didn't even show his face. So I had to, there was a lot of trust I had to build. I didn't, he had to allow me to film him at all. And so there had to be a building of a relationship there. Man, the hardest, the most difficult thing I think because it's so uncontrollable and it's so much a matter of luck and serendipity is finding the story. Like, come on, how it's, I mean, in a lot of times the story kind of finds you. And like, I had a chance to chat with Matthew Heineman who directed Cartelland. Yeah. He's like, he was just reading magazine. Yeah. And then he's like, oh, this is interesting. There's like these kind of groups on the border that are vigilante or stopping people from crossing over. He's like, that's a story. That could be a film. Yeah. But it's like, man, how do you find this story? How did you come across your docs? When I made Shake The Dust, which was my first movie, I didn't know what I was doing at all. I mean, I was just a kid who was running around with a camera and I would, I was, the story was about break dancers, be boys, be girls that grew up in mostly in slums in post-conflict areas in places where you wouldn't necessarily as a western or thing that there would be hip-hop culture or break dancing. And I didn't ever, you know, one of the challenges of that film is that I never really found a powerful through line, or I never chose to really look forward. I think I was trying to create like a surf film out of break dancing, you know? Like, I wanted something that was really dignified that wasn't politically driven. That didn't have this like, well, you know, look at all the political situations in these countries. It really was supposed to be about dancing. And I think that if there's a flaw in that film, it's that I had, I never really found a powerful singular storyline that kind of ties it all together. Whereas with my second film, I didn't want to spend nine years waiting for that story to bubble up. So I got connected with Sunmoo, this North Korean artist. He was willing to let me do a documentary about him and then I sort of waited, and I went and did a bunch of other stuff and then I found out that he was doing a big show in Beijing, which was pretty historical. It was this massive show at a big gallery. It was the first time in North Korean artists was going to have a big show in China without the sanctioning of the North Korean regime. And so I was like, okay, well, that can be my North star. I can do this, you know, I can take a year and a half or two years max into a story about this artist as he prepares for this big show. And likely there's going to be some amount of drama that's going to unfold around that. But even if there's not anything like super dramatic that happens, that gives me a arc. And I can then use that as kind of the backbone and then fill in the rest with his backstory and you know, interviews with him and learn about the issue and all the stuff. And then so I, that was how I found the story there. I tried to find some big event that could kind of be the hook that everything hung on. And then the second thing that happens with documentary filmmakers or that doesn't always happen but that you want to happen is that's something big happened. And that's that show got massively shut down by the Chinese police and the North Korean government and it was this big thing which created tension and pay off that I wouldn't have had otherwise. So I think it's a combination of being smart enough from my last experience of making a doc to know, okay, I've got to have like a skeleton. There's got to be something that's kind of like the bones of this story that's going to hold it together. And then with documentary films like with Anthony Weiner film like so much. I mean, they can never in a million years of known or plan that all of the stuff was going to go down that went down in that movie. Dude, well, yeah, that was before all the scandal. Like it was before any of these Weiner scandals came out. Well, and the Weiner and it was like one Weiner scandal after another while they're filming which is just crazy. And they catch literal Weiner scandals. So yeah, that's one of those things is you don't know and like, but sometimes that's the risk in documentary filmmaking for the most part if you're capturing something that's like a work in progress. Like that you obviously films that you can do that are based on archival footage as somebody's story that's already happening and that has its own challenges mostly in the edit. But when you're actually capturing you're out trying to like see if a story happens. There's a lot of risk. Nothing could happen. It could be the most boring you know anti-climactic and it can be exhausting too because you're constantly looking for what the story might end up being and you're trying to figure out how far do I go down this rabbit hole? You know, like I remember on my first documentary when I was in Yemen I was like there was so many different things happening in Yemen at that time. It was 2011 the Arab Spring was just unfolding. There was a massive Somali population that was at risk in Yemen. There was so many stories and I would interview people who would be like, oh, this is good. This is good stuff and then I'd be like, oh wait. This doesn't really have anything to do with break dancing. You know, or like, like their house is gonna be there. Yeah. And so that can be exhausting to have known what road to go down because some of the best documentaries have ever seen or films where they started filming one thing and then it really ended up becoming something entirely other and they like followed Alice down the rabbit hole and it really pays off. So you know, because you never really know what's gonna end up paying off and maybe the thing you set off to do wasn't the better documentary. So right. Yeah, with ours, it was with minimalism. It was tough because it was, uh, it was these guys going on tour talking about living a simple life. That's like sounds like the was boring idea in the fucking war. And so that it was challenging. And then we really used them as a throughline other talking head interviews to explain other elements of this movement. But then it was like starting to see that there's building momentum and like people are starting to come out and it's growing and more people are connecting with it. But even that, like that's cool. But it's not like it's kind of, uh, uh, it's what happened. That's the story but man, it would have been a little bit cooler like if some other shit like happened that really like made it. Um, but that's the thing is and I think that's the thing about having integrity as a filmmaker too is that like you can't force something to happen. You just have to let it happen and see how it unfolds. Well, and I think it also takes having a perception of like those in-between human moments that are going to end up resonating with people. there's so many documentaries where I've watched it and it's been, you know, maybe there's maybe it wasn't the most well done film ever. But then there's some really human moment that the filmmaker had this gut, like this is a good moment. This is something we should sit with. And then you, that one thing kind of saves the whole film. There's a, there's a, you have, you can't only be committed to like the 3x structure or like having like, you know, your hero's journey happened. Like you, you have to, you have to be a filmmaker. You have to be thinking like a filmmaker and thinking almost like someone who is writing a script like, what is the human core emotional? What is the emotional core of this film? And what are those little in-between moments that are going to help like resonate with an audience that is going to help create them actually walk away caring. Because if you just have the facts there and you just have sort of this like robotic structure, I've done that before and it doesn't work. Like audiences are at the same time dumb and really smart. And they, they don't always know how to articulate it. Like a test audience doesn't always know how to articulate what's missing. But they know and they're gut. We're, we're a population of people that go to movies all the time or something isn't. That's a great point. I think I've noticed that in the feedback that I've gotten even from co-producers and people that are close to the film family and friends they'll give me feedback and then I have to kind of decode it. And what does that mean? Because you're right there they are both at the same time. They are, ignorant to understand not in like a bad way but just like they don't have an experience filmmaking so they don't know how to articulate the pacing was a little bit quick. It felt a little bit rushed. You know what I mean? But then they're like, it just felt off. Like it felt like every, I don't know. So you have to try to figure out actually there's a great behind the note. Right. There was a great example of when I was shooting the doc design instructors. One of the design leaders was saying how somebody came to him and said, hey, we really need to make this thing. We need to make this thing bold. We need to, change that font to be more bold. And then he said, why do you want it to be bold? And then it came to be that they needed it to be more pronounced. You know, well, there is a hundred different ways that you can make some more pronounced. You could take away from outside of it. But just making it bold is just one way to get it done. Yeah. So it's, it's hard to decode. I had a Joe, I'm going to scrub his last name, Bethchen Koppsky. He edited the Zen Diaries of Gary Shandling, objectified a bunch of amazing documentaries. But he said that this, he actually said, objectified us so good. Isn't it phenomenal? And I'm just, those docs, and I was watching the Gary Shandling doc. this dude is a master of editing. I can't see that one yet, but it's four and a half hours long, because it's a two part spot. And it's like, just the editing is super masterful. But then like, also to understand like him and his process and like he's like, it was like, you have moments where you're so challenged and you're like, how the fuck do I go from here? Where do I go from here? I don't know how to continue this film. But then it's all about, you keep going. There's a lot of other conversations. The editing is is next level. And it's that's what's going to make a documentary for sure. But he was saying, which surprised me, but he said, keep your audience guessing or keep them on their toes. Like don't hold their hand through the entire story. Like don't tease them and like don't kind of build something up and then just like ignore it. Yeah. They have the story, carry them through in a way that they're always kind of like, where is this going? Where is it going? And that's a real art. I mean audiences have a gut for setups and payoffs. They don't know how to, they don't always know how to articulate that. But whether you like it or not or whether you mean to or not, you are set your sort of throughout your film setting up many setups and payoffs and or not paying it off. And audiences sense that. And you know, when I've done like test screenings, what I've noticed is a lot of people will be like, you know they'll write on their form or they'll say in the Q&A after like I didn't like this part. And as a filmmaker that like I don't like this thing either, if it's a note from an audience member or a note from an exact, that's not a good note. Like that's not a good note to receive well I made this film. Like you don't like that thing. But then you like, you have to go back and be like, okay they didn't like that part. Usually it's, it's not that they didn't like that part. It's that something about it wasn't working or that it came right after something that wasn't working. Like I've found that if I just look at what the note was and I said, okay well they didn't like when so-and-so said such and such. And I look at what's around it. And usually there's a cluster of notes all around that same area and you have to kind of like look at it almost like you're looking at an impressionist painting can be like, no okay everyone seems to be bothered by this one scene. But everyone had a slightly different way of talking about it and then you you just have to, you have to, you have to wade through like okay you have to do it. So I know that I don't fully agree with their note, but I know that clearly there's a unanimous thing about this section and then figure out what that is. And oftentimes it's, it's not cutting out the thing that people don't like. It's cutting out the thing before it. Wow. Yeah I never thought about that. But yeah it's, that's the challenging thing and that's the tough thing when I get feedback is I think you have to kind of be, very thoughtful about the feedback that comes in and I like, well, is this feedback coming from my parents? Maybe they're biased. Maybe they're just going to love everything I do. Is this a YouTube comment? Is this somebody that's just trying to troll me? Is it doesn't have my best interest at heart? And I think that like you as a film you have to, or just a creative in general, you have to decide like, do I want to listen to this feedback? And if you keep hearing the same thing over and over again, maybe there's some merit to it. And like you said, maybe it's not just removing it completely, but it's figuring out how to work around it, how to change it, so you have to make your point. Yeah. And we self sabotage so often as we get committed to this idea that we have like always wanted to have this thing in here. And then maybe it's not working. Or maybe, yeah, like we have to, unfortunately, sometimes kill your babies for the greater good of the story, but yeah, that'll be the name of the podcast. Kill your babies. Now you got to do it though. That's the hardest thing. And that's, that's the thing is like, Ri will end up creating a, when I realize that I'm going to take a story, whether it's a small film or feature like I'm like, Alright. I think I'm actually going to take this in different direction. You just created second version because you're like I want to save that. I want that to be there because there's a lot of work that went into that. If I am wrong about this gut feeling, yeah. Then I just wasted a lot of untuk� graph. That's the rate one, is the one that takes you a little bit left down. You make cut some stuff out or add some new stuff in, but it's like, it's always progressing in the right way. Yeah. I don't know if you agree with this, but I've talked to young people that want to be filmmakers like college students or whatever. I'll have coffee with them and I always tell them that the first, movie they make, the first documentary they make, whether it's a short or ideally a longer short. So there's time to unpack and do some amount of story structure. It should be about a person, like a single person, rather than about an idea. Because when you do a story about a single person, it sort of locks you in. It's a good, it's a good first step. It's sort of like learning how to walk before you can write a bike or something like you. You're forced into dealing with on some level the heroes journey. Like you kind of have to use some traditional storytelling and say, here's, I'm going to introduce my character. Here's the thing they're trying to accomplish or the struggle that they have. And I feel like you then can like sort of learn how on a more limited scale how to tell a story in an arc that's going to resonate and have like an emotional core and have an emotional arc. And then go do a subject which can be a lot harder because you're like, I'm going to do a film about about modern architecture. There's a million ways you can do that and you've got to somehow keep people locked into it. Dude, I love that. That's amazing advice. And I think it's actually even if you're going to do a big idea doc, you need characters. And every film needs characters, people that have personality. Like you don't want to have a sit down interview or somebody so just bland and dry. And you want somebody. And if you look at documentaries like Helvetica or objectified, like they include the unpolished off the cuff moment or they're sitting down. Like am I looking at you? Am I looking at you? And it's like, that's why I'm saying it always role. Just like start rolling before the person sits down. You have that moment, the gender interaction. You have like the clip of the the soundboard or whatever. And it's like, those are the moments people want to see. There was like, I think it was Helvetica where like they just had this great designer staring directly in the camera. And he's like, so you just wanted to keep staring at the camera. It's a really funny moment. Yeah. And it's just like random. But they kind of created it. It was there. And it was. Look for those opportunities and look for characters. And like you said, like if you're going to do a project, start with the character first. Yeah. And then. Yeah. Having an eye out for the characters that you know, that inevitably the audience is going to end up being like, I really loved that old man with the like the guy that was smoking the cigarettes. Yeah. you know, because even if it's not your most important knowledgeable expert or whatever, people can't help it. They're going to latch on to that person. And I also think that there's this huge art form, which I'm always learning, but I love getting better at of making a subject feel comfortable in the right way. And obviously, like again, if you're doing like a hard hitting political takedown, then it's different. You kind of want to make your subject uncomfortable. But if you're trying to make someone feel at home, who doesn't normally do interviews, I love that. That as well of like, okay, well, I told my DP and my sound guy like, we're not going to slay on this or we're going to slay well in advance. And we're going to like, warm him up basically. Like, I'm going to, I'm just going to start talking to him and before he knows it, he's going to be in the interview because he didn't even know we were rolling. And learning that like, some of it is playing tricks on your subject a little bit, but learning the technique of helping the subject feel like they can be themselves because they're going to be more articulate and be more interesting when they can be themselves most of the time. All right. And then be willing to maybe change it up because maybe you're like, sit down interview. They just for whatever reason when they're in front of the camera and the lights on, and they just stiffen up. all right, maybe we just, walk around. Maybe you know, maybe we pick it up and we do this running gun or maybe we do this interview twice. there's definitely, don't be afraid to change things when something doesn't go right or not working out. And also, don't be afraid to just cut out an entire interview. you spend an entire day. You had a crew and you had this interview plan for months, but then you realized it doesn't work. It doesn't fit in the documentary. That's one of the kill your baby's things. That's a tough one. You think about the time, the energy, all that went into it. And then you're like, sorry, Yeah. And that's hard to tell that person I know, and I've had, in my second documentary, I had interview interviews that got cold feet because they just didn't want to be, you know, there were consequences to being in the film and I had to just cut one guy. Not like, could I have kept him in ethically, probably. But it was, sort of needed to honor his request. And I just had to take him out. And it was a good interview. It was an important character. But yeah, actually had the same thing happened in design instructors where a company decided to pull out Somebody had, was no longer working at the company. And got personal release forms. I'm not going to say the name of the company. Very large company. It was wonderful. They have a whole team of lawyers. And we were like, it's just not worth it. Like we're not going to fight him on this. So we got one of their competitors and just replaced them. Like over this fan of two weeks, it was like, let's go out to San Francisco to shoot this interview and let's, record it, which was like, so challenging. And just like, the last thing you want to do, it was actually the night before we, we had picture lock in color. Oh my gosh. It was like we had it. And I was actually like, waiting for the OK to like, what does every doc have that, one of those stories where you're like, right before picture lock. Some, some shit. Everything falls apart. And then you're like, she's, because it's due to like, talk about the amount of work that goes into these longer form projects that take years to put together. It's just like, you just are so ready to be done. do you operate from a paper at it? Do you go and, and make us, when you're going to go into it? And do you work with an editor what's your, on the one I did, on design. because we had a budget for it, but minimalism, I cut it. You cut yourself. What were those two experiences like, I had the same for me for my cut. So you did it. I had that editor. totally different ball game. Uh, when I did it myself, and like that's how I had started out. I was just like, freelance independent film maker, everything I shot. I edited. So there is an element of like self direction. That you don't have to speak. What I, like what I want to articulate. I don't actually have to say it. Just because I know it. I think it, and then I do it, and I put into practice. When you were working with an editor, when you're working with a team, a DP, you then have the new challenge of having to articulate your ideas, and win them over. Because then, you know, you're DP, like one of my very good friends at shot, and they came about, I don't think we should do that. But then I have to actually be able to, voice my opinion and say, no, I really think it should be because of this. It forces, and a lot of people crumble under this. It forces out. It forces you to have to deal with your insecurities, because everyone has them, and I think some directors will, to make up for the fact that they're insecure, or to avoid getting pushed back, they'll become like maniacal, and just like be an asshole on set, or just be non-collaborative, and then there's other people that will just unnecessarily cave to anything that they're crew, or editor once, and I think that there's sort of a in-between, of knowing what you're, knowing that you have a very, a point of view, and there's a reason you're directing this thing, but also being willing to kind of have that feedback, and know that you hired your DP for a reason, too, and that's because your DP's good. I worked with an editor, I actually worked with her on both docs. I mostly edited my first stop, but she came in at the end, and then she worked with Maryanna. Yeah, she's actually going to be on the podcast. Oh, awesome. She's next week. She's so great, and she said something to me that I love, that I always stuck with me. There was this really, really late night on my first stop, where we were working, trying to get to picture lock, and I am an editor as well. I've edited a lot of my own stuff, and we were just like three in the morning, stressed out, frustrated, not communicating the best, and she's at the wheel, but I'm like trying to explain to her something that I wanted her to do, and I can't even remember what it was at this point, and I was like, can I just take the wheel for a second, and she let me, and I like quickly did what I was trying to explain to her, but I felt like I felt bad that I had done that, and I apologized to her the next day. Like we eventually all went to bed, and it was just like, okay, it's too late to be working right now. And the next day, I was like, I'm sorry yesterday that I took the keyboard away from you, and she was like, yeah, you know, she's like it's fine, but there's she was like, something to learning how to articulate what you want to your crew. Like there's actually, that is something you have to learn, that isn't something that just comes naturally. And I took that, I took that to heart, and I've really working with an editor on docs, that I've applied that to working on set, whether it's with actors or with a larger crew, on commercial projects, on other stuff, that that's a really important skill to home, is not to just assume that everyone can read your mind. And when you're doing the running gun, smaller stuff where you're editing, directing and producing the whole thing, shooting the whole thing, you can just live in your own head and you know what you mean, but learning how to talk about what you mean is, it's not easy, and you have to practice it. Yeah, and I think it starts at the beginning. It's like letting that crew know, and I've certainly made this mistake before, where for commercial stuff, or even doc stuff where we set out, and my crew only has a vague idea of what we're shooting that day, or a vague idea of what the big picture is. And that stuff is important, because I think the crew, first of all, just wants to know that they're a part of something. They want to know, it matters what I'm filming, it matters what I'm creating, and what I'm recording sound for. So that's important, but then also just to, then when something comes up, when a question comes up later, like, why do we want to shoot this interview in this sit-down way, and we could do it this way, and it's like, oh, because that's what, you know, every other interview was like, during this doc, or like, it all makes sense, because you already articulated what you wanted from the very beginning, which isn't always so straightforward. it's always a learning lesson. And I think that's the thing, like you said, you just can't have an ego about it. Yeah. you just have to be able to listen to other people, take people's advice, and know how to communicate. Yeah, you have to, I remember watching at Austin Film Festival, I saw PT Anderson and Jonathan Demi interview each other, two great directors, not PT Anderson's never made docs, but Jonathan Demi's made a ton of docs. Both of them have very different styles of working, and PT Anderson sort of the a tour, where he's like, I have my point of view, and I'm gonna just tell everyone to fall in line, whereas Jonathan Demi, is very collaborative. And a lot of his films, like Rachel getting married, are kind of doc style, where he doesn't have a strip, there's not a script, per se. And I remember thinking about those two things, and I'm like, you know, I don't, I don't want to be a full Jonathan Demi, and I don't want to be a full PT Anderson, like I want to be able to be a bit of an entrepreneur, where I do have a vision. I know what I want, and people are confident that even when it seems crazy, I know what this guy can do, and I trust that he's gonna make the right decisions, even though I maybe can't picture it. But I also, if there's a problem, I want to like collaborate on how to solve it, you know, or if there's, and that's where Jonathan Demi pointed out is he's like, if there's a problem on set, it's usually not one person's problem. Like it's usually not one person went awry. It's usually like several people or some circumstance, or some line that isn't working, and gathering the team and saying, okay, how can we make this scene work? Whether that's on a doc in an interview, or on a feature, like I think that a certain amount of collaboration is crucial. I want to talk about briefly, how these projects came about, and then I want to tap into a little bit of the commercial work you do, as well, freelancing, all that kind of stuff, hopefully give some advice to people who are trying to make a living in the business, which is super important. But this is part of it, too, is like, how did you get funding for these two docs that you made, how did the process of actually making them come about? Yeah. First doc, I started working on it in 2009, it took me like seven years to make. So, I'm not saying I recommend that for everyone, but it's like, that's the note of, well, I started making docs, because I could. Like, oh, I don't need to wait for someone to tell me to do this. if you want to be a doc filmmaker, like you can pick up any camera and go do it, and that's kind of the beauty of it. So I think on a certain level, like, if you really care about becoming a documentary filmmaker, like, you kind of need to be willing to bankroll stuff on your own, a little bit, or do things incrementally, put stuff on a credit card. For me, it was just booking a flight and going to East Africa, which cost a little bit of money, but at the end of the day, didn't cost a lot, and then it just was time and getting outside of my comfort zone. So when I started working on that doc, it was all self-funded, went into some debt for it, too. But also just put money away, when I did other non-exciting non-sexy jobs. And then toward the end, his shake the dust, which was my first documentary, has a pretty cool soundtrack, with a lot of good hip-hop music on it. Nas came on board to executive produce it, which was really helpful in helping secure, like as a medicinal financing, to close it out, and to get to bring Mary on it, and to edit the final cut, and to, we were able to get a lot of really good music and really inexpensively. You can't, like the kind of music you had in there from Nas to Common, and it's like, you can't have that music in without having a connection. Yeah. And we couldn't have, I couldn't have paid for that myself, but we also couldn't have afforded it even with the money that we raised without having that good will. And also it was a subject matter that people cared of. It was like, there was some heart to it, or a lot of heart to it. And so then that film, kind of bought me some, I guess street cred to then have another investor to be like, okay, well, and I had been working with this nonprofit organization, called Liberty and North Korea, that works with repatriating North Korean refugees, and they knew this artist named Sun Moon. They were like, we really, I was in Korea in Seoul, and they're like, this is a really cool guy. You should maybe do a documentary about him, and they introduced me to him, and I went to his studio, and I was like, yeah, no, I'm in this is awesome. That was in 2012. And they, one of their primary board members and donors is a guy named Blaine Vess, who's an executive producer on my second film, who came in for the first two-thirds of the financing for that film. So I was able to, that got me through the first year and a half of production to be able to just start shooting. How would, what would you do? You said you were working on a narrative project, like for future projects, how would you go about securing financing? I'm securing financing, and I mean, because that's such a big part of it. I mean, because for me, like when I first started out, securing financing meant just paying myself, but now it means hiring the editor, I want to hire, getting the music, I want to get the composer, and it means a lot more than just paying your salary. Well, and I would also say that my, and I hope this isn't a depressing thing to say, but my mentality about documentary has shifted to, like before I had this naive ambition that I would somehow put a lot of my own personal time and money into this project, and then I would sell it, and it would pay off. And I think you can't really have that mentality with a doc, like hopefully you do sell it to Netflix or to HBO, but even when you do, especially if you've brought in equity, you're going to have to pay your investors back first, and it can take a while before you see a dime, if ever, so you also need to be thinking about how am I going to pay myself? How am I going to survive on the budget of this film, so that if it's a bigger project, so that I'm not relying on this somehow, being my like, my retirement plan. Do that's a great point though, too, because in seeing, every creative art you need to also see the business side of it, and how to make this sustainable. Because if your parents are paying you a salary and you can just run out and make films about fairies, that's totally go for it. Do whatever you want. Good for that person. But for the rest of us, where you actually need to make money doing it, there is an art and a skill, and I think a practicality of staying small, and doing minimalism on the budget that we had it on, which was all just like self-funded, pulling up 10, 20,000 dollars to put it together. That worked out way better for us in the end, because we were able to do it ourselves. Yeah, and I think, so in terms of the actual practicality of going out and getting that money, it's just sitting down with a lot of different people, it's networking a ton, depending on what town you live in, or what city you're near, or what your personal network is. It's looking at your entire network and saying, okay, who do I know, or who do I know that might know other people, maybe it's making a giant list and saying, and then it's, if the story you care about, which it has to be, unless you're lucky enough to be just hired by the history channel, because you're a great doctor, and they need, we're probably talking about someone who's going after a story that they care about, then you just have to go down that list and meet with every single one of them, and convince them that not only is the story worth telling, but there's some kind of a business model around it that makes sense, and, you know, it behooves every, I just believe we live in an age now, much like what happened, what has happened with the record industry, where it behooves every filmmaker, every filmmaker to be an entrepreneur, to be a business person, and to know, like if you don't know a lick about the business side of filmmaking, don't start your movie yet. Go figure some of that out, learn how to make a line out of budget, and know how to make it, as cheaply as you can to still do it well. You know, I think, I'm not going to say it on here, but I have a number in my head of what I think a documentary should responsibly be made for, if it doesn't have real talent attached to it, like it's not about Justin Bieber, it doesn't have Forest Whitaker as an EP on it. But that's another thing, is if you have good enough network or some amount of access to get a good, to get some kind of talent attached to go, that's another way to go about it. It's not even like, when you think of talent, you might think of the Justin Bieber, they're really high profile people, but that really helped, I mean, that was everything for us, now minimalism, because Josh and Ryan had, they were producers, but they were also the talent, or the on-camera talent on film. It's weird to call them talent, but you don't do that. They were the characters in the film, and they had an audience, and they had a growing and large audience. So now with Instagram and social media, you have a lot of people who have followings, they're fitness people, whatever it is. And you yourself have a skill as a filmmaker. If you can team up with those people, you have an audience already ready and knowing to pay for the project from that. Well, I mean, with my first film, when Nas was on board, people would say, what did Nas really do? Was he really that involved? He was an executive producer. It's very common in the industry that executive producers aren't a part of the day-to-day of creating a film. Nas actually was more involved than he even needed to be. Like he came to screenings and gave feedback and was, you know, very generous at this time, but that wasn't why I brought him on. And I think people missed the point of, like, you know, when my mom was like, oh, this like news article came out and it was all about Nas, and they barely mentioned you, and I'm like, well, yeah, that's why we brought him on. That's why he's a part of it, because Rolling Stone isn't going to do a story about Adam Show Adam Showberg. They're going to do a story about Nas. But yeah. That's, I mean, that's, it's so valuable to have that. I mean, because you want your idea to be heard and you want to be able to share your stories and there's more than one way to do it. Yeah. Commercial work. When did you start getting into commercial work, like working with brands, it seems like you have a pretty good connection in terms of the travel and what you're passionate about, but also including brands into that, to make some money. And this is an ongoing conversation for myself too. You know, I've never been represented and I've never had an agent. I've never had a commercial agent. It's something I've, it may be now reconsidering. But it was always kind of a growing word of mouth relationship based business for me where one brand would hire me, like really, really early on when Warby Parker the glasses company was just 10 people in an office. I went with the founders to India and shot with them. And then, you know, then continued once they grew, to do work for them. And then, you know, they recommended me to project red, which is bottoms or, you know, specifically under the one campaign. It's his effort in Africa with HIV. So then I've, you know, I've worked with product, product red for four or five years now. And that's all based on, it's based on a combination of that relationship but then also being, I think, the value, and I'm not trying to say that I'm like the awesomeest, most fun, interesting person ever. But the value of being good to work with is huge. It's, like, people almost want you to be good to work with more than they even want you to be super talented. You know, and especially, if you're doing international travel where you're in East Africa and it's, you're shooting under challenging circumstances. You're, you're in, you know, walking through a refugee camp. You want to be with people that can handle that, that are, that are, able to be malleable and, and go with the flow and work hard and not complain after a 10 hour day and the hot sun. Like, just having a good work ethic, having a good attitude, goes a really long way in kind of maintaining those relationships which then, or how I continue to get commercial work. Yeah. I don't know if that answers your question. 100%. But apart from that, right, who do you want in the bunker with you? like, shit gets hard when things are difficult. You want somebody who can communicate, you can, that's the one of the things I learned early on is like, just being a good person to work with, being a joy, being quick to reply to your client, like delivering on time or before time, like those things make such a big difference for sure. And that's like, like you said, that's why they recommend you to other people. Yeah. Because you're a killer filmmaker, photographer, and you're like making awesome content. It's because of everything else that backs it up. It's because like, I've made recommendations before for people to crew up others, and it didn't work out that well, because I didn't really have an experience working with them. Yeah. And now I will never give a recommendation for somebody, unless I'm 100% certain, that they can deliver, and that the person will actually enjoy working with them. Absolutely. Yeah. And it's actually sometimes hard for that reason to give recommendations, because it's either someone that, I don't want someone to steal from me, or I, or yeah, or I'm like, I mean, I don't know. I would maybe hire that person again, but I don't know, you know? Yeah. Like you have to be certain. If you're not totally certain, be like, well, you know, I'll think about it. I'll let you know if somebody comes up. But that's your reputation. Yeah. Yeah. Recommending other people. That's the thing I didn't realize early on, when people would say, can you recommend me for this thing, or even can you write a recommendation letter for me? Oh, I'm not just like doing you a solid. I'm, I'm putting my own taste out there of like the kind of people that I want to work with. Yeah. Concentrate. When you're, say, putting the other budgets, or talking with clients about, what you're going to charge for a specific project, how do you enter those kind of conversations? When does it usually come up? And like, yeah, how do you go about them? That's a great question. And I, I, it's interesting because I just, had three separate jobs come in all the same time. it's April. And I feel like there's always a little bit of a lag with commercial, work at the beginning of the year when people are just getting their budgets. And they don't, they're just coming out of the holidays where they spend all their, like 2017 budget. All this work comes in at the beginning of April. And I was budgeting things out. And part of it is like, if it's a returning client, usually just I look back, okay, what was my fee for this client before? Because there are, I try to have a generally set fee. Like, I try not to just pull fee, like day rates, or whatever it is, or budgets out of a hat, obviously. But different clients, merit, different slightly different budgets. You know, there are certain clients that are, I know they're scrappy. I know whether it's a non-profit, where I'm like, okay, I'm going to be cutting them a little bit of a deal here. I'm still going to pay myself, what I, like at a minimum, what I believe I should make. But I have a set fee. I have a set, if it's a, if it's a project, if it's a smaller project, where it's going to be me and one or two other people, I have a set fee for all of those roles. If it's a very large project, like a, let's say a quarter million dollar budget for a large, a very big company. Then again, we have, like the way that that usually works is we have line I don't, and when I say we, I'm talking about my producing partners who do a lot, when I'm directing it, they handle a lot of the, putting together the budget. But we have a set fee, and then we also try and make our money on underages. So we're going to, we're going to charge, we're going to say this is what the budget is for this, and it's an honest number, but we're also going to negotiate every single line on that. On that budget, and really our producer fee are, what our company brings in is going to be on the underages from that budget, if that makes sense. What do you mean underage? So we're budgeting 10,500 for our editor, but we're going to try and cut a deal with our editor, and you know, get 75, get him for 7,500, or cut a deal with our editor, or try and get it done quicker, so that we don't have our editor for as many days or whatever. Because you know, I'll try and build in my own director's fee, but my company is going to kind of make a break on whether or not we can go under budget on a long budget. Yeah, you need the, to actually make a profit as well. Exactly. So then you can reinvest in the company, like you exactly. Companies, for them to grow, or to even stay steady, you can't just like, pay everybody out in yourself out, and that's it. Yeah. If you're going to buy gear, or you're going to hire employees, or get an office space, the stuff costs money. Well, and I think a good producer business person, it's not about cutting corners that you shouldn't cut. You know, you always have to like, stand behind the product that you're creating, but a good business person who's a producer on, you know, on a commercial level, or whether it's music video, especially music videos, which I haven't done anything in this, because it's really hard to make money doing that. But you have to learn how to make something, really good, but know when you can, where you can cut back or where you, like, I've seen this happen a lot with producers that have just been in the business too long, where they think they need a lot of bells and whistles that they don't need. And I think my producing partners, and I have been really good at being like, how can we do this really well, and efficiently? And not crew up where we don't need to, but make sure that everyone's taking care of and that we're not just eating pizza. You know, that's me too, isn't that so important? Just take care of the crew, and that's the thing is that, and people can sometimes fall into this trap, where you're like always just trying to, you know, work and operate under the smallest budget possible, where you're sacrificing the well-being of your crew, where like the hours are unreasonable. And it's like those things are really important to think about, and yeah, especially on a commercial project, because if you're working on an independent film, it's like a 500K feature. You can get really creative, and people will put in long hours, especially if it's a non-union job. People will put in long hours, because they're like, this is a cool film. Or this is like, maybe this will be the thing that, like, as a DP, that gets me my bigger job, or whatever. But a commercial job, like a lot of these, like, the lot of these people that are showing up, they're like, they're just there to just do their job, and go home. Like, they're not really benefiting much. This isn't like something they can add to their real, right, especially if they're a gaffer, you know? Yeah. And so yeah, taking care of people is really important. One more question, and then we'll get into quick questions, which is a little segment we got to wrap up the podcast. What advice would you give to freelancers, or, filmmakers' creatives that are just starting out, that are trying to make a living as a freelancer? what should they be thinking about very early on? So I'd go back to learning some of the business stuff, knowing, like, if I could do it over again, I would have taken, if not majored in business, I would go back and have taken more business, classes in school, because it just took a bit of a bigger learning curve. I think knowing, how to, how to run a budget, knowing how to manage a business is important. But that's kind of a no brainer. The other thing I was thinking of was, which maybe is also no brainer, but I, beginning to think more and more that it's not, learning how to say yes to things, seeing the opportunity in the, in the unsexy opportunity is like, you and I were talking about back in the day, like shooting weddings, and all that we learned from shooting weddings. Like, that was invaluable. And I had a group of students from my, on the modern come and like come, they were graduating from college, and they were off photography students, and it was like a Q&A of like, what is it like to be a business person in this job? And I brought up wedding photography at all, and we're wedding filmmaking, and they all across the board. no, I want to do fashion photography. I want to do journalism. I want to do this. you can go do those things, but like, you need to make money as well. And you will absolutely learn a lot, and you will absolutely make money if you get into wedding photography. That is something that is recession proof. so, and I still say yes to unsexy things. I try to stay, yes to things that I, ethically okay with, but like, but I shoot, you know, like go to clients as a produce company. And I, I, I love them. They're great. They're good to me. The project we work on are actually cool. I get to go hang out with farmers in, in Mexico, and eat like the best steak ever, and they, and they pay me well. You know, so, and I always learn something, and I get the opportunity to try new equipment, and try new ideas, and they give me a lot of leeway, and how I tell the story. You know, they let me write the script essentially, and shoot at how I want. They have their basic kind of, and they need to communicate, and that stuff has gone on to be featured by whole foods, and stuff like that. So, and if I had just been like, I'm not going to shoot for a produce distribution company, then I wouldn't, there's a lot of opportunity, and money earned that I wouldn't miss. learning how to kind of, especially up front, say yes to everything, but then put in your real, what you want to shoot. You know, yeah, Communicate, communicate to people what you can do, but not be afraid to take opportunities. Yeah, when I was doing the weddings, it was, that was all over. You could see in all of my work that there was weddings, it was in my real, it was like on my website, and then once I decided I didn't want to do it anymore, I had to wipe it off from the face of the internet, and I'm like, because I don't want to get weddings. I think that it would, at that point when I was trying to do more startup companies, tech companies, they don't want to see that I'm doing weddings. So it's like, it served me well for that time. Yeah. But like you said, so important to make sure that the work that you've done in the past is the work you're going to get in the future. Can I add to that? This may seem like obscure advice, but it worked really well for me. So I started doing weddings on my own, and then a good friend of mine was a very successful wedding for talking for, and he asked me to come on to his studio and be a shooter for him, but shoot my own weddings, but under the umbrella of his studio. That was awesome. Not only did a lot of my overhead cover, there was a staff now working on my behalf to book weddings. I didn't have to do any of the kind of biz dev stuff, and when I moved away from doing wedding photography, I didn't have to rebrand myself. Like I had already been building separately, my own separate commercial documentary filmmaking brand, and my wedding work was all under the umbrella of another person's name. Yeah. There's a good part of that, and a bad part of that. It really just depends on what you want to get out of it. But I had the same thing. One of my friends had a wedding film company. He booked out all his weddings. I probably done a couple of dozen weddings under his company. It's great if you want to get experience as a filmmaker or photographer and make money for the day that you put into it. I eventually stepped away from that to do weddings more on my own because when I was able to shoot it at a producer, I could make more money. Make a lot more money. And then also, if I wanted to, at that time, I was planning on building that business out to be a larger thing. You own those clients, and those clients will recommend you not your friends' company. Yeah. You kind of, you would only want to do it if you, with the right person. And if it was, if you eventually wouldn't want to do wedding photography anymore. I think I knew. Yeah. Let's get to quick questions. Speaking about, you know, just kind of taking that business side seriously. Has there been a book that's impacted you, the most, or that you've learned from, about freelancing and being, taking a non-traditional path? Oh, man. Oh, man. I don't read a lot of like, books about the business. You're so a book that has impacted my career. You might have to edit out a long pause on this one. I read a lot, but I read a lot of like, you don't do a lot of the self-help much. I don't type books. I don't. I read. So yeah, I guess you're seeing general too, then. What kind of inspires you and has inspired you? So yeah, I mean, I remember reading, this is going to sound so random. And if I had more time to think about this, I'd probably give a different answer. But the biography of Elon Musk impacted me a lot. Just seeing, you know, it wasn't an autobiography, so it was one person's take on him, but seeing, you know, I tend to think that you do well in any career, and especially in the film world, when you can kind of step outside the matrix, or realize that everyone's kind of playing a game. And I think that applies to a lot of other fields. Like, when you can realize that there's rules, there's rules to learn, and there's rules to break, and that success kind of comes from learning when to keep the rules and when to realize that they're complete bullshit. And Elon Musk's life is, I mean, he's a very imperfect person, but he's definitely someone who knows when to keep the rules and when to break them. I love that. What drives you? Honestly, curiosity, that's maybe a bit of a cliche, but curiosity, and that's why I love to travel, and that's why travel and documentary filmmaking goes so well together, because it's all about curiosity. Am I supposed to get like one word? No, yeah, that really, I don't know. This is the only segment I've been doing, and normally it's just kind of, I guess it's just an easier way. I think I first started it, because I was like, oh, this would be a good way to get sound bites, the teasers and stuff, but at the end of the day, that's not really why I do it anymore. Should I answer in the form of a question? Should I answer with the question in my answer? Like, no, really awesome drives me. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I think lately I just do it, because it's kind of a nice fun way to, I think I need to develop a few more of these, but a way to kind of get some more pointed questions that are have something valuable that the audience can act on towards the end. A couple more here. What's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow? In life or as a filmmaker, man, both. The simplest advice that's the most important to follow, be kind. I think that applies to life and to work. I think kindness. You will win so many people over, and whether it's your subject matter or just people in life or the barista, to whoever. Kindness goes really far. Two more questions. What one thing should people read watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight? Read watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight? Well, I don't think that you should read anything a little cold right now before you go to bed. Yeah, come on, you don't need that. I just started keeping my phone in the living room. I don't even, it's actually my phone anymore. You don't wake up to an alarm. I have Alexa, which most people would be creeped out by, but I have Alexa Dot by my bed, and I just say, Alexa, set a alarm for 7am and then at 7am, my alarm goes off. But you could replace it with a, you could have an old, old fashioned alarm clock too. I just don't use my phone for my alarm. Yeah, but those have just like the one. Eight, eight, eight, eight. You want to wake up to that? Yeah, Alexa's alarm, the template, basic alarm is very soothing and very best to wake up too. That's fine. Okay, one thing before people go to bed tonight, they should watch is the episode of Chef's Table that takes place in Slovenia. Hmm. Which season is it? It's season. Should I look at that real quick? Yeah, sure. Hmm. Should I show you? Season two episode five? Does that make sense? Uh, what is Anna Rose? Yes. Yeah. Okay. Miracle dishes. So the thing that people should watch before they go to bed tonight is not something political. Hmm. But they should watch season two episode five of Chef's Table on Netflix, which is Anna Rose. And I don't know the name of her restaurant, but she's from Slovenia. And the reason I say that is because first of all, I think before you go to bed, you should be, if you're going to consume anything, you should consume something that's going to be, that isn't going to keep your mind spinning. And she just has a beautiful spirit as a chef and Slovenia is just stunning. And it's everything that is good about Chef's Table, like the food, the, the all-encompassing. To me, food and traveler are like one in the same in a way. And I think that show taps into that a little bit. I think people underestimate how much Chef's Table is actually about travel and look in locations. But man, that episode is just, I watch it regularly, just that one. It's almost meditative for me. That's great, man. I'm going to check that out. Cool. Well, thank you so much for doing the podcast. Last question here to close us out. What's the best way for people to find you online? LooseLugage.com. L-O-O-S-E. Lugage.com. It's been around. It's been my moniker forever. And so I just haven't gotten rid of it. All this Lugage on Instagram was Lugage on everything. Great, man. Thanks for being here. Thanks for having me. And that's it. Thank you so much for listening to this podcast. I feel like I want to, and you'd like a, like a catchphrase or something. Go get them. Like a, make it, make it fast. No, keep driving. Keep driving. That's, I think that's racist. Keep doing the thing. Make it happen. Make it happen. I don't know. Ground up. Show. Fuck.
