# The one mindset that changed my life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Purzzv8G66o
Yoooo my new course MASTER YOUTUBE is now live!! 🎥🎬🤯
https://slowgrowth.com/master-youtube

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2021-05-05

## Transcript
 Well, hey guys, all right, so real quick, what you would, if you're gonna, if you subscribe so it started with a few, you know, that was very, you know, that was the beginning, and like most beginnings, it was messy. So I remember the months leading up to shooting that video. I was sitting in the kitchen of my Brooklyn apartment. I had my face in my hands, and without looking up, I told my partner Natalie, I don't think I can do it. You see, from months I've been talking about starting my YouTube channel, about making original videos, and putting myself on camera for the first time. But even after a year is as a freelance filmmaker, I still felt so unprepared to make that leap. The self doubt was crippling. But Natalie took her credit, looked at me, without even flinching and said, you have to do it. What have you got to lose? So with no clear plan or direction, one day I pulled out my camera, set up my tripod, assembled my light, and hit record. And after filming and editing my first video, I somehow summoned the courage to click upload. Hey guys, what's going on? My name's Matt Diavella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, and this is my new YouTube channel. The result of that video wasn't special. It got me a whole eight subscribers, but at the same time it was completely life changing. You see, this video kicked the wheels into motion, and it got me started. Finally. I'm pretty sure that in the very beginning, this is going to be one of the worst things that anybody's ever heard, but it's going to get really good. It's going to get better. The mindset that changed my life was this. Start before you think you're ready, because you'll never really think that you're ready, but trust me, you are. I look back at so many times throughout my life where I didn't feel like I was qualified to make the lead. I think back to when I was in college, and I want to start my freelance filmmaking business. I didn't think I had any right to get paid to make videos, but I eventually found somebody to pay me a hundred bucks to spend 40 hours working on a video. And I was able to build upon that. It wasn't the greatest video in the world, but it was a step in the right direction. I also think back to the years of dating anxiety that I had. I had five years of really crippling social anxiety, and I kept flaking on dates. I kept pushing it back week after week after week. But eventually, I had to come to terms with the fact that I would never feel truly confident and comfortable to go out on that first date. And I remember I was nervous as hell. I was literally shaking in the shower before that first date. And that person wasn't the love of my life. I didn't go on a second date with them, but it was the step in the right direction. And that's exactly what happened when I started my YouTube channel. The first video wasn't amazing. The next few were great either, but that first step just pushing through that fear anxiety and doubt got me to move forward. There are so many forms of procrastination. We bury our heads and self-help books, watch endless YouTube videos. We tell people that we're eventually going to get started. Once we've gotten enough experience, built the skills we need, or made the right connections. The truth is that we put it off because we're afraid. We're worried that people will make fun of us. That will fail. That will try, and it will never work out. And won't that really get people talking. But if you don't get started now, you're missing out on all the lessons that come from the actual process of creating. Worst of all, if you never start, you'll only be left with regret. And that's exactly what I felt after I started to make my first video. You know what? I might crash and burn, but there are a lot worse things in life than trying something and failing. Once I got going, I found that in the first few months, it was actually really exciting. I mean, since I had broken through that initial phase of doubt, I felt like I could build momentum. I felt like I was working toward something. I was facing new challenges and problems that I'd never experienced before. And just because it was exciting, didn't mean that it wasn't difficult. Some of these questions that I faced were truly difficult to overcome. Among the many questions I asked myself, will I ever be able to make this work? How do I get people interested in what I have to say? Oh, and also, what do I do with my hands? I'm not sure where to look. I'm not sure what to do with my hands. Check, check, check. How does that look? But I pushed my doubts to the side and I kept going. I was just having too much fun to give up. I faced an entire year of stagnant growth. My bank account was drying up. My subscriber account stalled, and it didn't seem like I was ever going to be able to make a living on YouTube. But I knew that I wasn't ready to give up, and so I pushed forward. I continued to experiment with different styles of filmmaking. I focused on the craft and made the best possible content I could. Some of the videos I made sucked, and some were pretty good. I understand that things aren't always going to go according to plan, and if they did, that would be boring. I used whatever resources I could find to get the job done, and I didn't let excuses get in my way. Oh my god, these shots, this has been a whole day thing. Success is never guaranteed, and anybody who tells you that it is is lying, because there are so many things that are outside of our control. If we continue to work really hard though, if we experiment and try new things along the way, we might just find that we actually do get lucky. And we've actually given ourselves a chance to get lucky, because we've gotten started, and we've given it a shot. So we're looking at, I went from about 120 to 130 YouTube subscribers to today, literally overnight, I have 475, which is incredible. I got hundreds of subscribers, and then eventually grew that to a couple thousand. I got 50,000 subscribers here on YouTube, oh yeah, and the rock tweeted at me. When you look back at my early videos, those early outtakes that I showed you at the beginning of this video, you might wonder how the hell someone like that was able to build a YouTube channel with millions of subscribers. And it's because I got started before I thought I was ready. So if you're in the same position that I was when I was living back in Brooklyn, and I was filled with so much doubt, wondering whether I should make that leap or not, whether that's a YouTube channel for you, or it's writing your first book, or it's quitting your job, and going to move into a van, the one thing I'd recommend is that you need to start before you think that you're ready. And once you take that leap, you'll realize that it's not nearly as scary as you're making it out to be. You'll learn so much along the way, and yes, you might fail, but I'd so much rather you fail spectacularly than never give it a shot to begin with. And so just like Natalie gave me that advice so long ago, I'd also like to give that advice to you right now. If you want to do something in this life, this one life that you have, you have to do it. What have you got to lose? One of the reasons that I've been looking back at my old YouTube videos and my YouTube journey is because over the past year, I've actually been working on my next course. And that course is actually launching today, and I'm so excited to share it with you. If you happen to be somebody who's looking to build a YouTube channel for themselves, or you've been struggling to build your YouTube channel for months now, I'm really excited to introduce to you my new course, Master YouTube. Introducing Master YouTube. Your roadmap for creating a successful channel with integrity. In this course, you won't find any clickbait tactics or gimmicks that don't actually teach you how to make great videos. You'll learn how to come up with original ideas. I'll show you exactly how to turn those ideas into a compelling script. So this is part of the writing process, right? This is like, this is really what happens. Even if you're starting out with a smartphone, you'll learn the foundational elements of how to film yourself on camera. I'll introduce you to a process for how to edit your videos twice as fast. Making amazing videos is just one part of the puzzle. How do you make a compelling thumbnail? How do you work shop titles? How do you break through the noise? You'll learn how to develop the right mindset to succeed, and I'll share a model for growing your first 1,000 true fans in the end. For the first time ever, I'm showing you each and every step you need to take to build a successful YouTube channel for yourself, because you don't need to make all the same mistakes that I did. So if you want to learn more about this course, or if you want to enroll today, you can go to slowgrowth.com slash master YouTube. You can click the link down in the description below. It's so much more info on the website. You can really dive in and see exactly what comes with the course. Now, regardless of whether you want to join the course or not, I just want to say it's more important to me that you get started. I just want you to pursue the things in life that are scaring the shit out of you. If my course helps you, that's great, but if not, don't let this stop you from getting started today. That's so important, and trust me, you will not regret it. So one quick housekeeping item with this course is different than simple habits, my first course. The enrollment is actually going to only be open for the next two weeks. So it's going to close on May 19th. So if you want to sign up, go to the site, check it all out. The reason that we've done this is because we want to make sure that we can onboard students and answer all the questions that they have right away. In the very beginning, make that process nice and smooth for all of us. And I'm also going to be doing a couple live AMAs to welcome students to answer any questions they have about filmmaking, creativity and building their own YouTube channel. And also because I'm doing this short term enrollment, it means that I'm only going to be talking about this for the next couple weeks. And then after that, you're not going to hear me talk about this for the next year. And so this just allows me to focus more time on creating new courses, creating more YouTube videos here for free and other fun stuff that I like to share with you guys. And so you can go to that link again in the description. Thank you so much for your support.
