# The Benefits of a Simple Wardrobe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PWl6t4agmtw
Get exclusive content:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella

In this video I answer your most commonly asked questions about my minimalist wardrobe. I'm always looking at the comment section for good topics for future videos. Let me know your questions in the comments!

My gear... https://kit.com/mattdavella
^These are affiliate links. I only recommended products that I use & fully endorse.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** wardrobe, simple, simple fashion, fashion, minimalist wardrobe, simple style, style, men's style, men's fashion, minimalist men's fashion, declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalism, minimalist, simple living, simplicity, basic wardrobe, capsule wardrobe, project 333, courtney carver, 
**Date:** 2018-07-09

## Transcript
 I remember a beautiful moment that happened a few months ago. I had been wearing the same gray t-shirt for a year straight. Every morning, gray t-shirt, every day, gray t-shirt. Then one day, I was feeling a bit adventurous and decided to wear a different color t-shirt. And as my girlfriend Natalie passed by me that morning, she turned and said, damn, you look good. Basically, since I'm not wearing a gray t-shirt, I'm dressing up. Let that be a lesson to you. If you want to impress your partner, set terribly low expectations. Okay, but in all seriousness today, I want to answer your questions and talk about the benefits of having a simple wardrobe. Okay, question one, when did you decide to start wearing the same thing every day? Minimalism kind of got me to realize and come to the understanding that 80% of what was in my closet and in my wardrobe, I didn't use. At some point, I realized that I had a favorite shirt, favorite pair of pants, favorite sneakers, and thought to myself, wouldn't it be great if I could just wear my favorite clothes every day? So I went out and I bought 15 of the same exact t-shirt. And today, that's how I've got the point where I wear the same exact thing every day. Does it get boring to wear the same clothes every day? It's certainly not boring for me. I don't think I ever got a lot of enjoyment out of picking what I would want to wear for the day. If anything, it just slowed me down and stressed me out because I'd be worrying about what people would think of me. And what I eventually found out was that nobody gives a shit about you. Everybody's thinking about themselves and they're just worried about how they look in their clothes. Nobody that I know and maybe it's because I'm a minimalist and people know that I wear the same thing every day. But nobody's ever asked me, I've never seen it in a video. Did you wear the stature in the last video? I wear the same shit all the time every day and nobody has either said it. Maybe they're being nice. Maybe they're being polite. I don't know. I just, I don't feel the need to impress people anymore, especially not with my clothing. I try to maybe impress people with the videos and the things that I make. But not with how I dress. What are the practical benefits of dressing simply? I remember I used to think all the time like, oh, does this shirt fit me? Do these pants look good? Like, I just worried so much about the clothes I wore and every day it was like a struggle to find something that fit or look good. And now I don't have that problem at all. Another big benefit is that I don't spend much time shopping anymore. I'm not as tempted by catalogs and advertisements. Whenever I see men's fashion ads, it doesn't have a poll. It's not definitely not going to have an effect on me. It's not going to make me run in the store and buy something, which is really nice to have that kind of control. And the last thing I'll say is, I guess because since I've thought this thing through, I've got plenty of underwear, socks, shirts and pants that I will never run out. So that's a good thing. I remember at one point just having like an odd number, at least small number of socks and underwear that I would just run out and have to do laundry like every half week. What is your girlfriend think about the fact that you wear the same thing every day? Well, let's just ask her. I couldn't tell us. You don't know if I'm boring? No, it's like, it's like whatever. Like, maybe it's what you wore was ugly. Then I might care, but it's very basic. It's hard to, it's hard to have a problem with it. It's quite, it's lacking a fence. It's hard to hear that, it's not there to offend. Yeah, no conjure of her response. Is a minimalist wardrobe only practical for guys? I don't think so. I think most people, at least the average American, has too much in their closet because if you honestly take an assessment, if you look in your closet, I guarantee there's probably at least 20% of the items that you don't use. For most of us, it's probably closer to 80% of the clothes in our closet. We do not use. So I understand, after time, you're probably not going to want to wear certain items and may go out of style, but I think we can all do a little bit better. It's a simple fire wardrobe and take a little bit of stress out of our lives. If you were a woman who wants to learn a little bit about minimalist wardrobes and how it can relate to you, check out Courtney Carver. She has this really cool experiment called Project 333, where she encourages and challenges people to wear. 33 items of clothing over three months. And I think it gets you to understand that one, you can do it and two, nobody's going to give a shit about what you wear. Was there ever a time that you didn't have something that you needed? I don't know if this counts as a wardrobe item, but I've definitely been caught without an umbrella many times and I've gotten wet. And that's the worst case scenario. You might get a little wet. You might get a little cold. But overall, I haven't found myself in need of something. I live in Southern California now, so I don't need a crazy heavy winter coat. If I go back home for Christmas or if I'm traveling somewhere that's cold, maybe I'll buy a second hand jacket or maybe I'll rent one when I'm in town. I don't know if that's possible. Can you rent jackets? I'll find out. But I've never really been in need of something. I have everything that I need and yeah, it's been going pretty good so far. So those are all my simple answers to your simple questions about my simple wardrobe. Thank you guys for watching. I'll see you next time.
