# Ground Up 043 - Reprogram Your Mind w/ Dan Harris
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PXYq4d1pctw
http://www.groundupshow.com

Dan Harris is an anchor for ABC’s Nightline & the weekend addition of Good Morning America. If you told Dan ten years ago that he’d be writing books about meditation he’d have said you’re fucking crazy (he likes to curse).

In his new book Meditation for Fidgety Skeptics he works with meditation teacher Jeff Warren to break down the common myths about the practice & how to integrate it into your life (not having enough time is usually a bad excuse).

I talk with Dan about his path to becoming an anchor, the moments that pushed his career forward & how to find happiness (or at least 10% more of it).

Get Dan's new book:  https://www.amazon.com/Meditation-Fidgety-Skeptics-Happier-How/dp/0399588949

Dan's Twitter: https://twitter.com/danbharris?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor

Watch this episode:  mattdavella.com/043
Exclusive content:  groundupshow.com

Thanks for listening! If you've got a minute I'd really appreciate a rating on iTunes.
**Keywords:** dan harris, meditation, journalism, reporting, news, podcast, the ground up show, ground up, film, filmmaking, minimalism, documentary, important things, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, director, directing, behind the scenes, set life, interview, self-help, how to, 
**Date:** 2018-01-24

## Transcript
 The happiest people I know found something they loved truly loved and went for it with extreme prejudice. Just went for it, falls out, go for it. And that's what happened with me with TV News. I knew I loved it. I was 22. I was willing to move to Bangor, Maine. I had like a shit job of 550 an hour apart time with a glimmer of hope that I could ultimately get on air. And I just went for it. And that is especially when you're young. That is I think the key to having a meaningful, professional life. Dan Harris is an anchor for ABC's Nightline and the weekend edition of Good Morning America. If you told him 10 years ago that he'd be writing books about meditation, he'd have told you that you're fucking crazy. He likes to curse. As the author of the number one year times bestselling book, 10% happier, Dan broke into the self-help world and taught skeptics how to open their mind with meditation. His journey to exploring mindfulness started with an on-air panic attack in front of millions. Years of reporting from war zones and subsequent drug use led him to his breaking point. And that moment pushed him to explore the self-help world, meditation, and the inner depths of his own mind. As he explained to me, a lot of people don't realize it, but the mind is trainable. I talk with Dan about his path to becoming an anchor, the moments that projected his career, and how to find happiness. Or maybe at least just 10% more of it. Couple housekeeping items. I'm starting to take questions on this podcast. The most common emails that I get are from people and creatives who are struggling to develop healthy habits, or those that are struggling to break into this entrepreneurial world, to make their first documentary so many different questions, very detailed, very specific. And I want to answer all of them, but I want to answer them on this podcast because I think so many more people would be able to get value from the answers. So if you yourself are a filmmaker, a creative and artist, and you have a question that you want to ask me, or one of my guests, here's what you can do. Record a video on your phone, asking your question, and send it in to helloatmatdeavala.com. Like I said, get as detailed and specific as you want, but just try to keep it under two minutes, just for the sake of my own sanity. I want to be able to really flesh out and give you guys the best possible advice that I can. And I'm also going to enlist my guests to help me. So I will pick the questions that I think my guests will be uniquely able to answer that week, and we will hash it out together. Again, that's helloatmatdeavala.com. I'm looking forward to getting your questions in. Have you got some value out of the ground up show? If so, I'd love it if you could give me a quick rating on iTunes. It only takes a minute, but it really helps to promote the show, to get the visibility up, and to ensure that we can share these amazing stories with even more people. So if you could leave me that 15 second rating, here's what I can do for you. I can give you exclusive access to the producer interviews of minimalism, a documentary about the important things. A little while back, I made a little series called Making Minimalism, and it really deconstructed and broke down how we made the film from scratch. How we went from nothing to Netflix. And those interviews were really candid, and they gave a look that most people haven't seen into documentary filmmaking. So I want to make those available to you. So if you take a screenshot of that rating on iTunes and send it to helloatmatdeavala.com, I will send you those full producer interviews. So you can hopefully get a little bit of insight into our project, and it might even help you on your next big thing. And with all that said, what do you say? We get to this week's podcast. This is Dan Harris. You're listening to The Ground Up Show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matt Diavella, and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. So congratulations on the success of the movie. Thanks. That was weird. Yeah, that's like came out of nowhere. Yeah. I said, I was starting to tell the story when I ran into Josh and the stairs. It was such a random thing. You guys come my office. I'm like, this is literally going to be nothing, but I like Josh and Ryan. So I'll do this, and no media appearance I've ever done has resulted in more people stopping me on the street than that movie. No way. Nothing. That's weird, man. Josh and Ryan told me that, and because they had a conversation with you about it, I didn't believe them. Sam Harris says the same thing. That's so weird. But you guys like, you're on TV every night, pretty much. Yes. And that people stop you on the street. People say, people will stop me to say, oh, I know I like your show on TV, but not one single thing. One single appearance has amounted to the the type of response I got to that. Yeah. That's why I like you said it was just like a random, it was one hour. You gave us one hour. We stopped by. I had a list of like 10, 15 questions to get through. And it's funny though, because then that interview for me becomes something that I probably looked at a hundred times. Yeah. And then I'm just appreciative that you you gave, you know, a nobody filmmaker, the opportunity to come in and ask those questions. Not nobody anymore. Yeah. Cool, man. So what do you say, we we hop right into the class. Yeah. And start this conversation. So, you know, speaking of kind of these these different forms of media, I feel like you're pretty unique in that you have experience both with the traditional media as well as the new media. And how everything has changed over the past maybe like 10 years. It's it's been a radical shift. I'll make you feel a little bit old. But you graduated college in 1993. Yes, I did. And that's like it's a totally different world. I remember reading a book that I think was called the internet for dummies. I bought the book because I wanted to understand what is this thing called the internet. Yeah. I mean the internet, the worldwide web was invented in like 1991. Yeah. So it was while you were in college. Yeah. This whole thing comes out. Was this like, oh, this is going to be a fad or is this was it obvious to you? It was obvious to me that it was a big thing. But it was so new and I was trying to understand it. And I remember my first email account, Hotmail. But that wasn't until I would say 96 or 7. Yeah. I feel like I my experience in college would probably wasn't that dissimilar to yours because I feel like even because I graduated college in 2010. And I was born in 87, making you feel old again. Yeah, yes, I graduated from my school in 89. That's crazy. So, but I really feel like now I'm sure college has started to kind of get it together and start to teach some of these new mediums. Yeah. Like it's not like we learned about podcasting or my expectation. So I went for broadcast telecommunications. Where'd you go? To temple. Yeah. Where'd you go? So my expectation was that I would graduate and then this is like early on, graduate and then go to a small TV station kind of learn the ropes and then maybe move to a bigger network and then kind of take that trajectory. Which is, I believe that was your church. That's what I did. I don't know if that's changed much for, say, aspiring reporters or journalists. I mean, or they could do this sort of ballsy route that you took, which was to like throw out the paradigm completely, take a big bed on something and see what see what happens. In your case it worked out really well. I actually think that's a good thing for people to do especially when they're really young because you can afford to take a hit. I can't take huge huge risk right now because I'm 46. I have a wife and a child and rent to pay and a lot of responsibilities. Whereas when you were doing minimalism, you were pretty young and your arms are still pretty young. That was a risk that I would have even without knowing how successful the thing would have was to become. I would have advised you to take that risk. Because when you're young, why not? I think the thing to do when you're that age is to identify the coolest thing you could imagine doing and try to do that. Why not? Why not? Because I think even if you fail doesn't matter. Yeah, like say like I make the documentary, I finish it. Nobody sees it. That's fine. Like if I wanted to get a job after that, I'm a documentary filmmaker. Yes. I have this, like instead of showing somebody your resume, you can show them this film and say, hey, this is something that I made. I feel like that would stand way more way out way more than just sending them your resume. And you could also have if it had failed and you decided you wanted to go the traditional route of starting in a small market and moving up. You could have just started later. There's no penalty for that. Yeah. I think it's about calculated risk, go to, at least for me. I feel like I'm like, I don't, it's what you have the stomach for. And in a lot of ways, it's like investing. Do you have the stomach to put all your money into stocks? Or do you like maybe want to put 10, 15 percent into bonds? Because like right away, I didn't go right into directing and trying to make my own stuff right out of college. It was more so like, I need to build a business. I need to pay off this $100,000 in student loan debt. How do you feel about calculated risks? That's what I'm talking about. I don't think, I don't think scattershot, mindless risk makes a bunch of sense. Calculated risk. Identify you knew you want to be a filmmaker and you identified cool people about whom to make a film that you believe in there and what they're doing and you took a huge risk. And it was great to pay it off, but even if it hadn't paid off, it would have paid off in different ways that we've already discussed. Those are calculated risks. Take me back to 1993. You graduated college and you go to Maine with it Maine? I graduated college in Maine and stayed in Maine. Yeah. I went into first though. I went into a really deep depression. When I graduated, I had a classic quarter life crisis, real serious depression for a while because I had no plan. Didn't know I was going to do not know. And I was looking down the barrel of the rest of my life and just didn't have a plan. I rather audaciously applied for a road scholarship, which I deserved this richly. I was rejected soundly. And then I just didn't super cocky kid. I didn't have a backup plan. I had done a bunch of internships in college in TV News and I sort of had this idea that I wanted to get into that. And was able to get a stop gap job in Washington, DC for a few weeks, months with a guy who had run who had employed me as an intern a couple years prior. And then through him, I was able to get a sort of entry-level job at a TV station in Bangor, Maine for 550 an hour, part time. Wow. So it was pretty lean. I was eating a lot of mac and cheese. And I was operating a camera in the studio for one of the for the for a show called a live at 530, which was the afternoon newscasts. And I was learning how to write scripts for the show and just doing basic stuff. And then about three or four months into that, they gave me a job as an on-air reporter. And that was just the beginning of the whole thing. Wow. Wow. So that's a pretty quick jump right there. It was the opportunity presented itself. And you had imagine busted your ass up until that point. The understanding when I took the job was that it's hard for me to remember all of these events now. But understanding when I took the job, I believe was that eventually I would get a shot of being on air. But I had to pay some dues. And there were basic things I need to learn about being in the news businesses. Especially the big skill, which people don't realize, the big skill to learn in news is writing, learning how to write for spoken word with pictures. So it's actually kind of an interesting 3D chess. And we, you know, we write and it has to be quick, it has to be accurate, has to be legally sound. In other words, you can't say so and so killed so and so you need to say they allegedly killed so and so. And there's a whole style manual that you need to really absorb. So I was learning that. I was writing for our young anchor woman at the time. And so when I had done a few enough reps, they let me go out and do stories. So this is, you kind of running around, doing a little bit of reporting. Yes. And you have to find the stories yourself, generally. If memory serves, it was a mix. We had an assignment desk that handed out assignments. And that was very sort of political and, and if you didn't get a assignment, you know, then you weren't on the air that night. And that was, that was probably more you'd have to look around, read the papers, call the local cop shops and see if you could drum up a story. Did you know where you wanted to take that? Was it like, I want to be an anchor? Like, that's, that's the dream. I don't know how much I thought it through. But yes, I definitely was interested in being an anchor. And I got this opportunity where they, so this was a local NBC station in Bangor, Maine. We did not have our own morning show because the morning show was done out of. So the today show airs from 7 to 9 or actually now 7 to 11 on NBC stations throughout the country. Local stations usually do their own local news from 5 to 7. We were too small to have that 5 to 7 show so it was produced out of Portland, which is a larger city to the south. And we would air there morning show. But we did do our own what are called cutins. So when you're watching the today show or any major network morning show, you'll see local news cutins where the local anchor comes on and does a couple of minutes of news weather and traffic. And I was, I got, nobody wants to do that. When, I don't know, but I, because you had to get up before the morning. Okay. So I was given the opportunity to do that. And I was like, that's great. I'll learn how to anchor. And actually, that changed my life. So I would work these crazy days right? I'd have to be up at four, come in, write all of my own scripts, do the cutins, anchoring the cutins. I had one blazer that was a hand me down from my dad. That was my only jacket I had. And then I would go report stories after that. So I've worked these intense days. I ended up making a reasonable amount of money because I had so much overtime. For a young guy, I think I made like 25 grand or something like that year in 1994. That was, that's not a bad amount of money. Yeah. And so yeah, I just, I took a calculator risk. But it was, so it was another seven years from when you first started until when you got to ABC. Yeah, but a lot of things happened in there. So I worked in Bangor for about a year. Then I was given an offer at age 23 to moved Portland main where I was the weekend anchor. And I looked like I didn't even have a driver's license. But they I was the weekend anchor on this big NBC station in Portland, Maine. And during the week I was a reporter. And then, and then I moved to Boston where I worked for sort of a local cable outlet. I don't know if you're from New York City, right? Yeah. Or Jersey City. So do you know New York one, which is, or, I'm sure I've seen it. Do you know New's 12 New Jersey? I don't know. I don't think I spent much time watching the local news. So personally, in lots of major metro areas, they have a 24 hour local cable news and in Boston, it's called NECN and New England cable news. And so I worked for them and it was a great station. And then after seven years of being a local news, I got the call to go to ABC. That's a long time. I feel like over that time, you probably built up a lot of confidence. And was there a moment when, or at least a year when you were like, oh, I got this? No, like, definitely not. Yeah. No, I did it. Like, you've got it now, right? My worst moments are when I have that kind of confidence. My best moments are when I'm worried, but not so, not so worried that I'm paralyzed. So I find that I'm at my best when I'm a little bit uncertain and have what the Buddhists would call the Guinner's mind. So I don't assume that I know everything and that allows for a certain amount of spontaneity. But I make my worst mistakes when I'm like, yeah, I got this. I think it also probably says something about the prep because if you feel like, if you have such confidence that you're going into it, you're like, oh, it's going to be no sweat. And then you get hammered in an interview or you just, you can't think of the next thing to say. I think there's something to that. I don't know if I've ever said this before because it's a little cheesy, but I have this little kind of mantra that I use for myself before I go on the air. So one of my jobs at ABC News is I anchor the weekend edition of Good Morning America. And it's really fun and I love my colleagues. And there's a way in which actually you can get complacent because I've done the job for seven years now and, you know, I know the job. But I have these three little words they all start with P that I use as a checklist in my head. So their preparation, presentation, meaning like, is my tie straight. And, um, Presence, meaning like, which is a kind of a cheesy word. But like, am I awake? Am I with this thing? Am I not? Am I not so stuck in my head that I'm planning out all of how the interactions are go? Are going to go among the co anchors that I'm a truly listening to what my co anchors are saying, that the most, the the the funniest and most, what's the word? I'm I'm getting old. I'm having trouble looking for the word improvisatory stuff can come. How do you stay sharp? That's one thing that I've struggled with because I have good days and I have bad days. And sometimes I feel like I need to get into a talkative mood or get into the right mindset to be able to have even a conversation like this. So you shy by nature? I'm not shy. Well, I think it's funny because like, um, when I get warmed up and I feel like I could talk to anybody. It's like, you know, put a bomb on the phone and I'll be good. But otherwise, if I'm not warmed up, then I find myself tripping over my words, having trouble finding next thing to say. What do you think that is? Do you think that's a warm-up like you you're not prepared or warm-up like you just need to get into the groove of using your mouth? I think it's the head and mouth. It's like the words not connecting and going in the right, uh, the right mindset. I had a friend who's, um, he's a dating coach. And so I actually like suffered from a lot of, um, social anxiety around dating, early on right when I graduated college because I just like didn't go on any dates. It was years that I just didn't go on dates. Um, and then like online dating started to come through and I was like, I got to do this. I got to put myself out there at, you know, I want to start meeting people. In part, it was me living at home in Jersey having nobody to meet besides people that I graduated with. He gave me a really good advice. He's like, I didn't actually, I followed through a little bit, like I would do a couple of these little things, but he would say if you're going on your way to the date, leave 30 minutes early and then approach people on the street in New York and like just say the most embarrassing thing you could possibly imagine. So it's like saying, uh, like, I'm about to ship my pants. You know where the closest bathroom is. Like saying all these really embarrassing things. And then it allows you to like, first of all, you're not worried about failure. You're not worried about saying someone's stupid anymore. You survived. You noticed you say that thing and then like you survived. Yeah. By the way, I would never do this, but that's that's that's great that you did. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if I use that specific one. That's an awesome. Uh, it's a, it's a pretty good one. That's great. It's a good material if anybody needs to use that. I would love my ass off of somebody said, that's me. And I wouldn't judge them actually. I'd be like, oh, shit. I need to find you a bathroom. Yeah. I would feel badly for that person. You wouldn't. Um, so I guess, do you feel like you need to do any kind of warmups like that to to prep going into a show or a podcast episode, or do you find the fact that you've had the repetition of doing this for years, it tends to take care of itself. Warmups is great. It really is, um, so one of, so funny, we have this thing before weekend, good morning America. We, one of the two main hosts, so my co-host is this fabulous woman named Paula Ferris. And she and not one of us every weekend morning has to do the promos. So we tape something like 15 promos, little 30 second promos that are fed out to all the local affiliates around the country that want them that promote what's coming up on our show. And so you basically involves reading the same thing over and over, but you change the names of the local anchors at the top. So when it's Seattle, it's so and so and so and so and then you read the same three things. And so it's actually super repetitive. But I'm always telling Paula, I will do your promos because on the days when I do the promos, I warmed up. And you can, you can tell. Oh yeah. Yeah. I could, I could even see it in my face when I rewatch the show. I look more awake. Yeah. There's got to be something to that. I feel like I need to develop it, like, uh, because I'm about rules. I like said a lot of rules for myself. Uh, for the gym, it's like, I won't skip two days in a row. No, neither will I. Yeah. And let some sick. Unless I'm sick. Yeah, I just recently had Salmanilla over Christmas. It was nothing worse. It was the, it was the first time I've ever had it. First time I've ever had food poisoning or anything. I've had it a million times. Oh my god. It was a, I was a debilitated for like a week. It was seven. It was Christmas Eve when I got it. My father has a great expression about food poisoning. He says you switch back and forth between, uh, thinking you're going to die and fearing you won't die. That's great. Yeah, I, I honestly was like, is this forever? Like, yeah, because my buddy actually had an experience where he went to Africa and he got, uh, it was a tapeworm or a bug. And it changed his stomach and how he died just food. Now he's lactose intolerant. He came back dairy. He's got to go to the bathroom every hour to take a piss. And it's like, I was really, I sort of texted him. I was like, what happened when this happened to you? Because I'm a pretty sure I can never eat dairy again. Um, luckily, I just, I'm on a stint of antibiotics now and I'm starting to feel a little bit better. Um, that was scary for a bit. But so I, I stopped. And now I got to go back into my workout routine and kind of redevelop it again. But I found setting a rule where it was two days. If I, because if I, if I missed two days in a row, then I'm way more likely to miss that third day. So I'm pretty slow. Yeah, like, do you have any rules like that outside of exercise? Yeah, I meditate two hours a day. Yeah. So that's a, that's a pretty big rule. Change my life. I started that about two and a half, almost three years ago, as kind of a luck. Frankly, I actually, part of the motivation was a little crash because I had this, you know, I write books. And so I had this, I have this idea that I'm going to do at some point. I'm going to, I want to write a book about enlightenment. And whether that's even a thing or, you know, possible for somebody like me. And you can't, as far as I know, a chief enlightenment, unless you do a ton of meditation. And so I wanted to up the dosage. So I, I tried it as a kind of a stint. But it really stuck, um, not because of the book, because I haven't gotten around writing that book. And who knows, I think I will at some point. But it's stuck because I like what it did to my mind. Um, and why I like what it's doing to my mind. But that's a hardcore rule. And that I really stick to. Yeah, that's a, that's a, that's a lot of time and a lot of energy. Uh, yeah, you said, you mentioned in the book, like it's not something you usually, it's not the first thing you tell people. No, uh, because it might scare people off. Absolutely. They'll think two hours who's got the time. I always try to inhabit the mind of a meditation skeptic, um, and because I was ones, I know the way people think who are skeptical about meditation. And, and I, what I'm always trying to do is to not say anything that the skeptical mind can latch onto and use as an excuse, not to meditate. And so when I meditate, say, I meditate for two hours a day, I, I very quickly add one minute a day, one minute daily is totally fine as I have it. Um, I would shoot for five to ten minutes a day, but if you don't feel like you have five to five to ten minutes, one minute is great. So my doing ten two hours is really, you know, one way to think about it would be like, you know, so you and I both exercise. Um, I don't know what your exercise regime is, but mine is like I do, I exercise six days a week. And I do enough so that when I look at my stupid face on television, I'm not super embarrassed, right? That's my goal. But I'm not, I'm not crazy about it. But some people get into, uh, into exercise and they go and they run triathlons. You know, so like I spent some time with a ritual yesterday, who I know you know, and he does ironman stuff. So for me, that's the same things with the true meditation. I think if you want to start a sort of, uh, a healthy habit, you can do one minute or you can do five to ten minutes, whatever, you're, you're, you're, you're good. Some people want to take it further and be like, in the triathlons zone, and that's what I'm trying to do. Just to be clear, anybody who's listening, who actually is a serious, serious, meditator, I am not calling myself a meditative triathlete. I'm just kind of a meditative triathlete, want to be. Right. Uh, you spoke about enlightenment. Yes. And that's just one of those fascinating things. The book that got me into meditation, uh, and mindfulness was the power of now, which for a lot of people, uh, these days, that was kind of the book that got them into it. He talks about sitting on a bench, uh, for three years or something. Two years in a state of bliss in the city of London, where as far as I know, they have winter. So like, that story threw me for a loop. Yeah. And like, I mean, this is the part where I'm a skeptic at heart. I'm not skeptical about meditation, but for most things growing up Catholic and now being non-religious, like, I just, I kind of put that on everything. Um, I recently had somebody on the podcast who said, uh, he lives in a state of meditation, and he actually said he just got into meditation a month and a half for that. And living in a state of permanent. Yes. Yeah. I was like, I need to talk to Dan. That may be it may be true. Mm-hmm. It may also be delusion. Yeah. Well, that's the thing is that the mind plays tricks on us. The ego is a slippery mother fucker. And it, it will just seep in every crevice telling you all sorts of stories. It's creative. It's relentless. It knows you better than anybody. And, um, and it is important to see that. And it's the work of a lifetime to peel back those layers. When you meet somebody like Eckhart Toulay, what's the vibe there? Is it like, it's believable? Is like, this guy might might be onto something. All right. I got a whole wrap about Toulay, specifically. Yeah. So Eckhart Toulay changed my life because I, um, had never really considered meditation. I had never, it was a non-my-radar at all. So, but one of my colleagues recommended that I read a book by Eckhart Toulay. And she said, it's all about controlling your ego. And I laughed because I thought she was telling me I have a big ego which, by the way, I do. And so I thought that was really funny. But her suggestion was you should read it because, um, you know, it might be a good story for ABC News. So, because he, at that time, he was Oprah, had embraced him in a really robust way. And he was making a lot of news. And so, this was in like 2008 when you were what. And like, second grade. So, pretty much. So, I ordered his book. And I actually tell this story in my first book. Um, I ordered his book. And I was, I thought it was just unmitigated bullshit. Just like you feel, I saw the story about the park bench. And, uh, you know, I, he uses a lot of grandiose language. And, uh, it makes all these claims about how he's going to give you a spiritual awakening. And there's a lot of pseudoscience in there. And I was like, this is garbage. But he also describes so powerfully the ego. And by which he doesn't mean the way, most people when they talk about your, the ego, they're, they're talking to, they use it in a very limited sense of self-regard, you know, being seated or something like that. But he's just talking about the thinking mind. His argument is that we all have this voice in our heads by which he doesn't mean it's gets a friendio or hearing voices. He's talking about your inner narrator that chases you out of it. And the morning is the hammering at you all day long. You're constantly wanting stuff or not wanting stuff, judging people, comparing yourself to other people, thinking about the past, or thinking about the future, to the detriment of whatever's happening right now. And totally his argument is when you're unaware of this non-stop conversation, he owns you. When I read that, I was like, that is just true. This is obviously true. And definitely true from me. And so I went and interviewed him because I was, while I was deeply intrigued by his description of the human situation, I was really disappointed that I couldn't, he seemed correct. I've heard him describe this way as correct, but not useful. So he describes the situation well, but doesn't give you anything to do about it. And so I went and interviewed him. I flew to Toronto. He lives in Vancouver and but he was in Toronto giving his speech and I went and interviewed him. And he, I asked him a million times of what do you do about the voice in the head. And he was unwilling or unable to give me a cogent answer. Or maybe I was just stupid, but I didn't hear anything in what he said that made any sense. But to answer your question, I did not think he was full of shit. This is just my opinion. I've met a lot of self-help gurus, a lot. I've interviewed them, I've done big stories on them. And I feel in my bones that many of them are absolutely full of shit. Totally is not one of these guys who's telling you that you can solve all of your problems through the power of positive thinking, you know, the secret and all that stuff, which I'm very strongly against, totally is actually, he's on the way far, benign end of self-help. And if I have a criticism of him, it's that he's a little weird and he can be sort of hard to understand. I think my guess is that he truly is in a different headspace and he's speaking to us from there and that it's hard for us to understand what he's saying because he has had this inner transformation. His argument is, you don't need to, your conscious mind doesn't need to understand everything I'm saying because I'm working around that and I'm trying to reach your subconscious. So what to just bring this full circle, when I said he changed my life, it's true because he was the first person to point out the whole idea that we have a voice in our heads. However, there was something else that had to happen for me to bring it full circle, which was that I had to discover Buddhism and meditation. I think one of the big things about anything that is within the self-help world is most people, at least skeptics, will immediately judge and say that these people are charlatans and that all they're doing is trying to make money and profit. Eccorotolle is one of those people that like, I don't know, you just get a vibe from, I've never met him, but based on his writing and he doesn't seem like he cares. He wants to be famous or wants to be this person. I think that a lot of times though, the self-help gurus, and this is what I like about you're writing, they seem to know everything. They seem to have all the answers and I think what's nice about your work is that you kind of say, I don't know, on some of this stuff, you're like, I'm just learning the shit myself. I'm trying to figure it out and figure out what direction to head. When did you decide to write the first book? This was a, in terms of talking about a new media versus traditional, this is like your step outside of the fictional media. That's exactly right. That's that's sign of a good podcast host. You're bringing all the strings together. I had no, I had, I didn't have some like burning desire to write a book. I definitely didn't have some burning desire to write a memoir, my own life story. That was not something that I had been thinking about, but after I found meditation, after, you know, meeting Toli and then later, my wife gave me a book about meditation, and I started doing it, interestingly, she did not. But I very quickly realized that all the books about meditation, there are great books about meditation, but there are all a little bit annoying, and it's like you can hear a pan flute in the distance, and it's as if the writer is addressing you as a grasshopper, and I had this entrepreneurial itch of, oh, I could write a book about meditation. My initial goal was actually to write a how to meditate book, and so I started working, it took me five years to write my first book, because I wrote like 75 bad books before I wrote a passable book, which was the one that ultimately got published. But my early drafts were all like explaining how to meditate with with some memoir stuff in there, and everybody who read it was like you know, all the stuff about the theory is really fucking boring, just due to the embarrassing stories. So I wrote a book all about my own personal history of adopting meditation, and I told a lot of embarrassing stories, and my big innovation was that unlike any other meditation book, I used the word fuck a tongue. That was like the thing that was different. It's a great angle. It is a great, as it turns out, it's a great angle, because there wasn't being done. I walked into this like white space that nobody else with my background who was a trained story teller and a congenital wise ass was willing to occupy. Nobody else was interested in it. It was the first time my life I was ever actually ahead of a trend, because I discovered meditation 2009, which was, or before it became this big thing, and I discovered it for rather adiosyncratic reasons, and so my goal initially was just to write a how to book, but then I decided to tell my own personal story, and the goal remained the same, which was to tell people that this is a viable option that we write off as either impossible or bullshit, but in fact it's neither of those things, and here's how it worked for me. I'm trying to normalize it, make it fun and attractive, and that was why I wrote the book. And it got me in, as you said, to different types of media, obviously book publishing is old-old media, but it got me into doing podcasts, and I have an app, and social video, and all sorts of stuff that frankly I probably would not have gotten into if I had just stayed in my lane as an anchor man. When did you start the podcast? Started the podcast about a year and a half ago? Yeah. Dalai Lamo was the first guest was the Dalai Lamo. Not bad when you start? No, it was pretty good. Actually, we did a two-first, so with the first two episodes, Dalai Lamo and then the lead singer of Weezer, River's Cuomo, was that he meditates two hours a day. He's a big meditator. So, yeah, I mean, look, I have so many built-in, sometimes people will say, oh, my friends in the meditation world, they'll be like, wow, you know, you're selling a bunch of books, congratulations. I'm like, dude, I'm backed by the biggest media company in Earth, Disney owns ABC News, you know, so I have massive advantages. When I want a book a guest, you know, we have a very high odds of being able to book that guest for our podcast because I work for ABC News. And so I don't want to, it's not like, I'm just inherently awesome or anything like that. It's that I come to this game with a lot of advantages. With, well, this is like your separate company, though, too. Like you have those connections, but like ABC doesn't own or Disney doesn't own your podcast. They do. Oh, they do. So, my bosses are amazing. They're just so ridiculously supportive. So, they own the podcast. They distribute the podcast, which is great because I wouldn't be able to get this kind of, you know, you know, I recorded in our radio studios. It's, it's all, it's all done for me. But I have done some things outside of ABC. So, they don't publish my books. I work with an outside publisher and ABC just is super hands-off about it. Some of somebody in our standards department will read the book before it gets published and tell me if she thinks there's any problems, but that has not happened. And then I have an outside company that does the app. The 10% happier app. And I had to go through an approval process. Disney, you have to go through a, you know, they have to investigate what you're doing and make sure it's not competitive and make sure it's not going to take away from your day job. They did this very quickly. My boss, the head of ABC News, was cheering me on. He thought it was a great idea. I can't believe that this is happening, that they are this supportive of it, but they are. And so yeah, I now have an outside publishing deal and outside company. And then I do stuff also within the fold of ABC News. I love that you brought the podcast into ABC and like the traditional media. Because it probably would have been near impossible to fit that it like to what like get a, you know, additional bedroom in your apartment and like turn into a podcast studio or right now to space. And the fact that you have all these connections that you can start to build that, um, is there any part of you? So now you're like, you know, becoming what we despise, not necessarily, but like the self-help guru. Obviously, you have like people are kind of pushing you onto this platform in some ways. How do you, like, is there any part of you that wants to go at that full time and kind of push away from the ABC News and just do your own thing? It's so interesting. You just, there were, there were a lot of threads in that question. One of the things is this interesting tension for me of, you know, I am now basically a, I mean, I don't think of my books as self-help per se or I describe my most recent book as self-help for skeptics or, you know, I call it chicken soup for the skeptic. So it's kind of like anti-self help, you know, no silver bullets on offer completely, you know, the whole 10% happier stick is like counter programming against what I think of as traditional self-help. But I, I am very careful not to present myself as a guru because I'm truly not a meditation teacher. I'm very interested in meditation. I've written two books on the subject. I've been meditating for nine years. I go on silent meditation retreat. I have a pretty robust personal practice. But if you truly want to be, what I consider a real legit teacher, those people study for decades. They go on months and months and months and years in many cases of silent meditation retreats, their level of inner expertise is not something that, frankly, I will ever be able to attain in my lifetime. And I don't want to, in any way, put myself on that level. So what I, the way I think of myself is as a gateway drug. And so I'm, the sort of, I can provide a sort of a wrapper around the practice that makes it fun, hopefully, funny, and fun, and attractive, and, and, and then I do a main switch. I step out of the picture and bring in a meditation teacher, mail or female, whatever the age, which I truly, on the app, we do a lot of work to make sure we have a diverse group in every possible way of, of teachers who can speak to different audiences on different subjects. But the other part of the question you asked me was, do I want to step out of ABC and go into this full time? And actually, that is no, it's a little bit of a problem because I have these two things going on, news, which I absolutely love. And I've been doing this as a 22 and have zero desire to step away from, and then this whole meditation thing. And the only answer is to work my ass off seven days a week, and, you know, negotiate this in my life and figure out how can we do that in a way that doesn't burn me out and doesn't, like, take me away too much from my family. But I have these two amazing opportunities. You know, I, I just resigned at ABC and I, I absolutely love it there and my, I love my bosses. They're just, um, they've been, like, as I, as I said before, super supportive. And I have tons of opportunities. I mean, I anchor nightline and weekend GMA, I get to travel around the world. I was in Russia and October doing a full half hour for nightline about what's it like in Putin's Russia. I've got all sorts of crazy adventures. I'm going to do this year with ABC. Um, it just so filled with opportunity for me. And I mean, my bones, a journalist, and we're at it this time where journalism really matters. I have zero point zero percent desire to step away from any of that. But I also have this whole meditation life that I also don't want to step away from. And so it's a, every day for me is a challenge of figuring out how can I do everything I want to get done without driving myself crazy and without being an asshole. That's not easy challenge. By the way, you're asking about rules. A great rule, which, you know, you should, it's at more aspirational than anything. But a great rule is don't be an asshole. You know, if you can set that as a challenge, I've actually been thinking that I want to make 10% happier kind of comfortable, sweet, sweet gear that you can meditate in with a little, a long sleeve sweatshirt. And right where the sleeve meets the watch, I want to have in, in very subtle, maybe stitching, don't be an asshole. Because it's a great reminder, it's a great way to go through the world of like just don't be an asshole. And I, I break this rule all the time, but as an aspiration, directionally, it really makes a lot of sense. And frankly, there's a, I have a whole chapter in my first book called The Self Interested Case for Not Being A Dick. And there is, you know, think about, and this is the kind of self awareness meditation can give you. What does it feel like when you hold the door open for somebody? If you're paying attention to your mind, in that moment, it feels good. That is infinitely scalable. And what does it feel like when you're talking shit behind somebody's back? Doesn't feel good if you're paying attention. There's a little bit of dopamine, you know, rush about gossip, but frankly, what does it really feel like when you're running somebody down behind their back? Doesn't feel good. And meditation, which boosts yourself awareness helps you see this and it provides a powerful incentive to not be an asshole. I find that when my life is maybe getting a little bit chaotic, say if I'm working on a documentary, and like you said, it can be tough to fit all these different things that you're trying to do in, when that happens, when my life gets a little bit unbalanced and I'm focusing too much on a film or too much on the podcast or whatever it might be, I do send to see that creep up because like you kind of lose your patience. Yeah, easily. Natalie will come home and then, you know, it will be that much more likely that I might piss her off in some way, not because I'm an asshole at heart, but because I'm an asshole in that moment. My dad has a great quote. It was like one of his best friends told it to him. He said, it's all right to act like an asshole every once in a while. Just don't be one. Yes. And that really, I think meditation helps, but the balancing helps as well in that ritual, I was talking to him. He was on the podcast and he was saying, I was like, so how do you do with the balance? Like you write books, you do the podcast, you do all this stuff, like training for these ultra marathons, how do you balance it on? He's like for the most part, like on a day to day, my life may not be entirely balanced. It may not be in perfect unison and harmony at all times, but in the long run, I try to make sure, like over this, say the span of a month, I have, you know, spent time with family and friends and I've worked on my personal projects and done all this and I find that works because sometimes when you're working on these really big projects, they can be draining and like you guys learn going out on the road and filming and shooting all these interviews and going on tour, it can be really draining and it can be really difficult to always be in a perfect state of harmony. I like what Rich said that so your overarching goal should be to have balance, you know, writ large, but on any given day, you may not have it and I think that's true for people who have a lot going on, I think that's true, but as you pointed out in the new book, meditation for fidgety skeptics, you know, actually I have something of a breakdown toward the end of the book because I'm trying to, I have a startup company, I have a podcast, I have a very busy day job, I have a very young child around the house, I want to have a happy marriage and I'm writing a book on top of it and by the way, this book from conception to completion to publication was I think 14 months, that is ridiculously fast for a book and especially in say an ambitious book and I was dying and my wife had to take me aside and be like dude, you need to turn it down a notch and that was very useful and so what I would say actually the one I think take away here for listeners in terms of finding balance, one major asset if you can find it is a good partner. I happen to have married very well and she pulls no punches and tells me when I'm being an idiot and is sympathetic too but also honest and that is hugely useful because whoever you're living with, whoever your partner is, is going to know you better than anybody and is going to see things that you aren't seeing and point them out to and if they're skillful at doing that, that's a great way to achieve balance. It's kind of like when you're meditating and I don't know what you would call it because you have the voice in your head and then what the observer of the voice, like your wife in some ways is the observer. It's a great enough of you being an asshole. So she plays the role of mindfulness. So in meditation you, just for the uninitiated, the basic steps in meditation is to sit quietly, usually in a reasonably quiet place, close your eyes, second step is to bring your full attention to the feeling of your breath coming in and going out, usually wherever it's most prominent, your nose, your chest, your belly. The third step is the key because as soon as you try to do this, your mind's going to go bonkers and the whole goal is just to notice when you become distracted and to start again and again and again and in that moment, many people when they see that they've become distracted, they think that they've failed but actually that is a victory. That is the victory and it's a victory of real consequence because when you see how crazy you are, you're less owned by the craziness. But so as you pointed out, there's an interesting thing. So there's my thinking and then there's whatever knows that I'm thinking and this is the great mystery of consciousness. We don't know what it is that knows but one word that often gets used is mindfulness. So it's the ability to see what's happening in your head and in a given moment, be it thoughts or feelings, physical sensations without getting carried away by it. So I can see a big burst of anger without drowning in it and acting on it and that is just the ability to kind of step out of the trance of anger, which by the way, not special. There's no special effects here. This is your birthright. The ability to know what's going on in your head without getting carried away by it isn't some special thing. Everybody has it. We are classified as a species as homo sapiens sapiens. The one who thinks and knows he or she thinks but the second sapiens is largely atrophied over time because in our culture nobody points out to us, hey dude, you can actually through the breasts of meditation step out of the traffic of your sort of inner chaos and see it all without getting carried away by it. At least for nanoseconds at a time but that allows you to have a leg up on your own inner life. You have the one thing that stood out to me. So I'm reading the book and I was reading it full disclosure because you were coming on the podcast so I was like let me just I was I want to read this book. I don't really want to meditate. I don't really want to get into it. So I would actually skip a lot of the early meditations and then somewhere along the line you got me with the story and then I'm like I probably should have been meditating right now and it was it was really the catching patterns. Yes. But when you first brought it up it sounded kind of fluffy and I was like catching patterns. Like that sounds like you're just like you can see your mind and you can see the patterns flowing in and out and it didn't sound like it was a real concrete thing but then you gave some examples and there was a meditation based around that and I think I have a couple here like spacing out, stewing, overthinking, waiting. Different patterns that we find yourself caught in like almost like a stream of consciousness and I found that to be very helpful because it's it's it's also not quite so I think easily definable because our minds are just crazy. It's like ping pong. Everything's just bouncing around in there and then sometimes you go into this thought pattern and sometimes you go out of it. What have you found about finding those patterns in yourself and you know now that you've been doing this for years, how have you improved on finding those patterns? What you see over time in my co-author in this book Jeff Warren who's this masterful meditation teacher from Toronto really pointed this out and he makes the case in the book he writes all the meditation content that if you look at your mind closely and if you realize it's basically six seven eight competing characters in there. So as you just said they're stewing, they're stewing, there's impatience and for me there's anger, planning, ambition and they're always fighting for salines in your mind. It's like the magic eight ball if you shake the magic you know the magic or you don't know the magic. So the magic eight ball is going to be seven. I was born at 87. Not not not not two thousand seven. All these like tiles in it and then one of them floats to the surface and has primacy the one that's the one you can see. And in many ways your mind is like that. You've got all these little historical figures in your head, the planner as I was saying, the angry person, the ambitious person, the jealous person and it like the magic eight ball, one floats the surface that in a given moment and is running the show. You actually if you learn how to see these patterns then you are less owned by them. That is all we're doing in meditation. Well we're doing other things too but I think the primary thing we're doing for beginning meditation is seeing clearly. Just seeing is most of when you're unaware that you have this inner cacophony it governs you. All the thoughts become like little dictators you just act them out because there's no awareness that this all this all this noise is happening. All we're doing in meditation is systematically waking up to this inner cacophony so that we can navigate it more in a more supple way rather than drowning in every neurotic obsession that just happens to whiz through our head. It seems kind of ironic to to try to get an outcome out of meditation because this isn't the point of meditating. It's to like let go of those expectations and to just be present in the moment. So it's like I want to meditate because I want to be a better partner or I want to be a better business owner. Having those motivations is that a bad thing. I don't think so. It's it's tricky though because the most noxious thing you can bring to the meditation party in actual meditation like not not thinking about your practice in a holistic way but in actually sitting down closing your eyes and meditating. The worst thing you can do is to try to feel a certain way. If people often sit in meditating they they're totally distracted and they're seeing how chaotic their mind is or maybe some old trauma comes up and they feel like they're a failed meditator because they expect to feel calm. Expecting to feel calm is a hindrance to actual meditation. The point of meditation is not to feel any specific way. The point of meditation is to see clearly whatever you're feeling so that it doesn't own you. And so that is a reasonable expectation. The reasonable expectation is is like I want to meditate because I want to be a better business owner or I want to be a better partner. Basically another way of saying that is I want to meditate because I want to be a better human. That's a fine expectation. It just may not it's just that every sit every time you sit in meditate. It may not go the way it may not be a bubble bath. Sometimes it is. Sometimes it isn't. Doesn't matter. The whole game is just to see it clearly. Why? Again because every time you see clearly your own inner phenomena you are not drowning in it. That's a good point because I mean those holistic ideas about why we might do something in the first place aren't what come through while we're doing it. So making a documentary or writing a book. You're not actively thinking, oh I'm doing this because I want to reach people. I want to help people. I want to share this story. You're just you know in that state of flow. You're just in that state of consciousness where you're just creating and you're not actually thinking about the creation. I'm curious about what you've learned about behavior change because really this book is about how to change your behavior. And what are some of the things that you learned? I learned a ton. Because you interestingly from me, you know the conceit of this book. The reason why I wrote this book is I was trying to make up for an error in my first book. I naively assumed that if I told my story as I did in the first book about how I came to meditate and how it made a big difference for me that everybody would kind of hurl themselves into the lotus position and start meditating. Definitely didn't happen. And for many people I think it was, you know they put it on their list of things to do or they just read the book as a beech read because it's an embarrassing story about an anchorman about a co-cabin freaked out on television and blah, blah, blah. So what I wanted to do in this book was to actually help people meditate. Part of my problem was it was actually somewhat easy for me to adopt a habit, not because I'm disciplined. As I say in the book by way of proving that I'm not disciplined, not too distant past, I ate so many Oreos one night that I woke up in the middle of the night and puked. So I'm not a super disciplined guy, but I have a lifetime history of anxiety and depression and the science strongly suggests that this is really good for both of those and my personal experience. It was and is good for anxiety and depression and it was just a no-brainer. I will do pretty much anything to avoid the low cloud ceiling of despair that that descends when you are dealing with depression, that that meditation which is okay if this is what it costs five to ten minutes a day of meditation I'm going to do it. However, for most people adopting healthy habits is really hard, really really hard and for me every other healthy habit is also as hard to adapt, sorry, adopt. The reason for this is that evolution did not equate us a mind that is good at embracing long-term health planning. I mean, evolution didn't care about that. Evolution cared about avoiding saber-tooth tigers so you know threat detection and finding food and mates so that you could get your DNA into the next generation. Didn't care about brushing your teeth or getting cardio done or being going paleo. That was not on the agenda. As a consequence, we struggle with diet and exercise and sleep habits and all that stuff and so the thing to know if you want to adopt any healthy habit from meditation to you know going to bed on time or whatever it is is that you need to know that we are all wired for failure. You are not uniquely prone to fail and you approach the whole thing with a sense of exploration and experimentation. Try a bunch of different ways to achieve your goal, see what works for you and go from there. Eventually, you will get there. The final thing to say is that willpower is not the thing to rely on. Willpower is the incredibly ephemeral inner resource that evaporates when you're tired or hungry or bored and then you break all your rules. The better way to get pulled forward into a healthy habit is to hone in on what are the benefits and so for me meditation the benefits were I was calmer more focused less the anchor around my emotions and as a consequence less depressed and anxious. Focusing on that is what allowed me to drill into my daily life. Yeah, I find it very challenging in my own life to adapt and to kind of have some of these habits stick and I think that coming from that place of knowing that you're probably going to fail and like the one interesting thing about going out and filming minimalism interviewing all these people who were living happy and fulfilled lives to know that at one point in their lives they were stuck. They struggle to adopt a healthy eating habit or to exercise or whatever it is but yeah I think that one thing that was in common was they kept trying different approaches and as you mentioned in the book there's like a bunch of different things that you can do different ways you can experiment with adopting new habits that can help to change your life over the long run. The one thing that I really appreciate about your story is the fact that you have this moment in your life that kind of defines your life for a while and still to this day it does the on-air panic attack that you had. That's one of those things that for a lot of people they would look at and say this is like the worst failure. The biggest mistake that I've ever made I was such an idiot and you probably thought that way in the beginning. Still feel that way. Yeah but I feel like in so many ways you owned it. Yeah I took ownership over that and you said yeah like I screwed up really bad but then it became this huge part of your story and about growth and about moving on from that. I feel like what I guess my question is like what did you learn from that experience and from how you look at it. In meditation you talk about the fact that you can change how you look at something. You can change how something is in your mind so if you're really antsy or frustrated over something you can choose to look at it and then kind of drop that emotion and let it go. In what ways were you able to change the way that you perceive that incident? The my colleague Robin Roberts who's one of the main hosts of Good Morning America during the week so I do this sort of beat team stuff in the weekend. She's the 8A the Aest of the 18 and she has this expression that she got from her mom which is make your mess your message and so that's essentially what I'd said to do the I had a panic attack that was on live television was largely the consequence of having gotten depressed after covering wars in the Middle East and treating my depression with cocaine and even though I wasn't high on the air it was enough to change my brain chemistry and make me more prone to have a panic attack. It was very tough for me to turn around and tell the story publicly I thought maybe it was going to destroy me. It turns out actually it was kind of humbling not humbling in the way I hate when people say things are humbling like when you win an Oscar and people say this is so humbling that's totally not humbling. This was humbling truly in that I realized that people are mildly interested in my story but we're all the stars of our own movie and mostly what people want to know is okay okay that's a good story what do you have for me that's useful and I know that behind this I have the goods which is meditation which has nothing to do with me it's just a thing I do that I found and that's helpful for my life and I think it'd be helpful for everybody and I can describe it accurately and help you do the thing and now I have an app that will really teach you how to do the thing in a book and blah blah blah so it's humbling in the sense that it really is yeah I can sell a memoir and I can sell books that I'm which I'm a main character but that's not why people are reading it I mean that maybe maybe maybe maybe get them in the door but ultimately what keeps you is that this practice is legit what do you say we get to quick questions yeah like me around I love that yeah so I should do that on my podcast I don't yeah you know I'm starting to take audience questions now too oh so yeah that's a good time to plug that as well if you guys got your questions you can send them in some people are starting to send like because I have a lot of filmmakers that follow the podcast like they'll send me the most beautifully filmed questions oh which is incredible I'm like yeah because I think it's it's set in the bar early on so if anybody has questions they can send them in I'm going to get started with that. By the way I went to NYU Film School for one semester just enough to realize that I suck at making movies so yeah but one of my classmates and actually I went to high school with this guy is Eli Roth who went on to make of a lot of famous horror movies and then he started as the bear Jew in an inglory as bastards oh wow he played the gorilla in several of my college films oh really fun fact all right what book has had the biggest impact on your life. Going to pieces without falling apart by Dr. Mark Epstein it was a book given to me by my wife when I was interested in Eckhart tolling all this stuff and that book made me realize that everything in totally that made any sense actually was lifted largely without attribution from the Buddha and that put me on the path toward meditating what drives you the animating insight for me that drives my whole meditative evangelical side hustle is that the mind is trainable all the things we want the most come happiness generosity compassion patients these are not factory settings with which we're stuck our levels of these attributes are not like you know permanently fixed their skills that you can train the mind is trainable you can work on this just the way you work on your body in the gym and that is a game changer when are you happiest when I'm with my kid he does karate now I saw he he he he he he he done no no he doesn't karate yeah he's only three so he's two when he started a karate basically it's a weight of time up and funny outfits and make it yeah that's great um what one skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others haven't I think the thing that's given me a leg up in in the whole meditation world where I've been able to come in even though I don't have a ton of meditation under my belt that's just been helpful is that I've decades of training as a storyteller and a lot of that actually you know my my boss who will probably never listen to this so I can say this um without it seemed like a complete kiss ass but this guy James Goldson is the president of ABC news when I first met him he was the head of nightline and I which is a nightly magazine show and so they do longer stories I had my whole career up until that point was short stories I would be out in the field doing a news from you know a war zone or was some you know big bridge collapse or whatever and then I started working for James and he taught me how to tell longer stories and that skill is what allowed me to write 10% happier I basically stole everything I learned from James who has now become my big big boss and that is all I'm doing that is new and that and adding the word fuck a lot that is new in the meditation space and it I found that leveraging that has to my vast surprise made a big difference hmm that is such a difference like telling short stories versus long stories it's and it's such a challenge like I felt like I was well prepared to make a documentary because I'd made 300 short two minute videos and I was a tough lesson yeah like the skills and the cutting and like all that everything that goes into learning these applications help but there was like telling a story is a it's a totally different totally different thing a couple more questions what's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow so for young people especially given the theme of your podcast um it's what I said before I think it that the happiest people I know found something they love I would put you in this category and the guys and Josh and Ryan found something they loved truly loved and went for it with extreme prejudice just went for it balls out go for it and that's what happened with me with TV news I knew I loved it I was 22 I was willing to move to Bangor main I had like a shit job five 15 hour part time with a glimmer of hope that I could ultimately get on air and I just went for it and that is especially when you're young that is I think the key to having a meaningful professional life having said that my uncle when it was 56 went to law school so it's never too late to do it great two more questions what one thing should people read watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight we need watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight that's a good one I'm tempted to say the minimalism film we got or I could say the your meditation app yeah well that's a little even even for me like a little self-promotion yeah I'm trying to think there is okay here's what here's one Sam Harris was a big podcaster and a friend of mine has these two interviews he did with a meditation master by the name of Joseph Goldstein they're so good yeah and Joseph is my teacher and I met him through Sam and those two interviews are so interesting they get a little esoteric at times but just go back and they bear repeat listeners and Joseph is in my humble opinion and I actually mean in this case humble because I don't know that much one of if not the greatest living meditation guy and he's just like a seven year plus year old Jewish guy from the Catskills so he's not you know like what you think of as you know classic Eastern meditation guru but he's a genius great and lastly what's the best way for people to find you online Twitter at Dan B Harris and I actually do generally read the comments there I won't always respond but I generally do read them great thanks for doing the podcast Dan thank you man you do ask great questions and that's the podcast for this week Dan Harris I'm super honored to be able to sit down with Dan I'm slowly but surely going to have everybody who had interviewed in our documentary minimalism on this podcast got Dan Harris I got Josh and Ryan from the minimalist coming up I've got Courtney Carver coming on the podcast I've spoken with a lot of people from the film it's just a matter of arranging the particulars when they come out to LA or if I happen to cross paths with them in their hometown that would be pretty cool to be able to to get everybody from the film on it kind of see how their lives have progressed and where they are at now so stay tuned on that we're in it for the long run with this podcast so we will eventually get to that how should I wrap this up okay you know the deal I need your questions I want to start answering your questions on the air I've gotten some really great ones in so far I've gotten some great ones from filmmakers that are really stepping the bar and creating these really beautifully shot and produced videos you don't need to do that I don't want people to feel intimidated especially for those that aren't filmmakers recorded on your phone you know if you don't want to include your face don't include your face on the video I think it's just easier to record a video from our phones like I don't even know how to tell people oh record an audio clip on your phone like I don't even know how to do that myself so I figured video is the way to go there but record that question no matter what it is within reason I guess and send it to hello at matdevelop.com I will bring it on the show I will talk about it with my guests and I really think it's going to be a cool fun segment to help bring you guys into the show because I love hearing from you as well as helping to explore areas that I haven't yet explored ideas that I haven't gotten because I'm not you know I'm not the smartest person in the world I miss a lot and sometimes I'm sure you listen to the podcast so I wish he asked this person this question this is your chance this is your chance to contribute to the show and can't wait to do that all right that's it for this podcast thanks for listening see you next week
