# Ground Up 057 - The Grind w/ Dan Prakopcyk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qGUNRarEOxg
Get the podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

Dan Prakopcyk (https://www.prakopcyk.com/) is a LA photographer by way of New Jersey. He’s worked with G-Eazy, toured with John Mayer and his work has been featured in Complex, Rolling Stone & Spin.

We talk about how he worked his was up as PA struggling in NYC to landing his first gigs and making it as a freelance photographer. We answer some big questions like: When should you work for free? When should you lower rate? How do you find clients when there’s no one knocking at your door?

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, editor, editing, storytelling, story, story telling, photographer, photos, daniel prakopcyk, dan prakopcyk, g-eazy, interview, interviewing, john mayer, tour, 
**Date:** 2018-05-02

## Transcript
 Don't be discouraged if you don't get work in the first 3-4 months-slash years. For me, I was a PA, and that's how I funded Living New York City, and still trying to be a photographer. I was, you know, first one there, last one to leave all the time on all these big shoots and got paid nothing. Just finding a way to fund your passion and keep with it. Pan-Prakupic is a LA-based photographer, by way of New Jersey. He's worked with G-E-Z toward with John Mayer, and his work has been featured in complex rolling stone and spin magazines, and he's my cousin. This is the thing, that's not going to sound weird to you, until you hear the story, because we met about a month ago, and we didn't know we were cousins, and then it just, you know, I don't want to ruin it. It's a really short story, but we cover it in the beginning of the podcast. Super serendipitous, super strange, but it turns out that we're blood that were cousins, which is cool, because it's always great to have family close by. On the podcast, we talk about how he worked his way up as a PA, struggling in New York City, landing his first gigs, and how to make it as a freelance photographer. We answer some big questions like, when should you work for free, when should you lower your rate, or increase your rate, and how do you find clients when there's no one knocking at your door? Huge questions for freelancers for photographers, anybody in a creative field, speaking of questions, do you have a question for my guests or myself? Do you have a question about your own creative journey if so, record a short audio or video clip? Keep it under two minutes, send it to helloamatdivello.com, and I'll get you on the podcast. It's been amazing to hear from you over these past couple months, and I want to continue to place those questions where appropriate, when it's going to help my guests and I really tackle a subject in a different way. So again, send in those questions to helloamatdivello.com, and we'll get you on the podcast last thing. You know, I say this on every podcast, but it has actually really helped, then it's been working. If you leave a review on iTunes, what I've been seeing is it's been increasing our visibility. So the podcast has been within the 200 business on iTunes, which is huge, and that's been for the past couple weeks now, as these reviews and ratings have come in, that's increased our visibility. It means that more people are downloading the podcast, more people are finding it, which is amazing, because it means that I might be able to keep doing this. I've been doing it for over a year now, and you know, it has been challenging at times to work for this long and put this many hours into both the video and the audio side of this podcast without making any money off of it, but I see where it's going. I have a vision for this podcast, and for the content that I'm creating, and I'm just inspired by the reaction and the support that you guys have given me. So thank you so much for your support in the past. Thank you so much for your continued support. I really appreciate it. You are really what makes this whole thing possible. So with all that said, what do you say? We get to my cousin. This is Dan. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matthew Evela, and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary Minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. Dude, I actually still can't believe that we found out there were cousins for crazy. Isn't it so fucking crazy? Dude, it was so, because my mom, you know, she, actually, you know what, let's, I think that's like the best place to start faster, because that's, I mean, what happened with it? So our mutual friend connected us and said, hey, you guys should meet, I think you get along. So we got lunch last month, and then it was like a couple weeks later, I got a text from you. Yeah, it was, it was really funny, you know, I was on a podcast before, and my mom was listening to it, and she's like, oh, you sound really great, and I'm like, oh, I met this other guy who's from North Hunter, and he's like around four years, he went to Borey's high school, and we graduated in the same year, and all this kind of stuff, and she's like, what's his name? Oh, I'm like Matt DeVille, she's like, what? She's like DeVille, like, like, what's your dad's name again? You're that same mark. Mark, he's like, Mark DeVille, and like, I went to high school with Mark DeVille, I'm like, what? And she, like, she's like, you have to ask him right now, like, who, I'm like, why, you're like freaking out, he's like, he's your cousin, I'm like, no way, she's like, and then I texted you, and it was like, yeah, your grandfather and my grandma would go to church every Sunday. Which is hilarious. It's, it's so crazy. The getans are at ease, they're like, it's, yeah, it's just so funny. So, I couldn't, I couldn't believe it yet, because then I'm like texting my mom, and then they're all like, oh no, no way, who was it? Actually, I think I called my mom the next day, because it was pretty late, and then she happened to be like, with three of her sisters, and they all started going nuts, they're like, who was it? That is hysterical. Well, because, you know, we have a really like, my dad's side, never really like, hung out with the getans ready for some reason. Like, I think aunt francy, you know, probably aunt francy passed away recently, right? Mm-hmm. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. It's tough for me, because they're so many. Yeah, my grandpa had, it was a, he had 16 kids. Yeah. So, it was a very big family. And the other thing we never like connected, because it just was too big, it's so big, yeah. I just can't believe it. Objects. Yeah, so we're second cousins, which is bizarre, why don't you start out, tell me a little bit about the, you know, work you do right now. So right now, I am working towards doing some editorials and portraiture. I just got off the tour, and I was doing a lot of music stuff, and I'm trying to move into doing more portraiture. And that's what I'm working towards studio stuff, on-site stuff, on location. And just trying to find clients, but doing a lot of meetings, doing a lot of lunches, doing a lot of coffee, doing a lot of, you know, networking as much as I can, as a new freelancer. So that's what I'm doing now. What's the, the thought process behind that transition? Like, why portraits versus the more live, almost journalistic type of shooting? I think, for me, it's a little more creative. I like to do the documentary stuff, I think, finding moments, and shooting backstage, or shooting people with, you know, famous people, whatever it is. That's interesting to me, but also, I like to be a little more creative. I can come up with, you know, any idea for a photo shoot for somebody that is either a YouTuber or is a DJ or whatever it is that they were like, oh, we need headshots, but I want to be a little more creative and find difference of the deal with people. And I think that path is the way I want to go instead of keeping doing the documentary stuff. Just personally, I don't know if there's anything else besides it, that's what I want to do. So, you know, it's hard to transition that though. I think finding a studio space was great, having a spot that I can actually bring people and bring them into whatever I have set up, and that's easier than having like coming into my apartment and setting up something a little spot and doing stuff like that, which I did in New York. So it's been great. I think it's been awesome. It's a good transition. One of those things that people probably don't think about in terms of like the ease of the work that you're doing. And that's not necessarily to say you should always take the path of least resistance, but when I would think about like when I was starting out, the documentary stuff was the easiest for me to get into because it's either as a filmmaker or either getting into this doc, wedding films, and capturing the moment as it is, versus high production, you have to run out spaces, you have to get actors, you have to make, you know, the set design look amazing, and you're doing more narrative stuff. That is way more difficult to get into because there's, you know, it's bigger budget, you have so much more to figure out. If I'm just going in there as a documentary filmmaker, I just capture what's there. Yeah, you're bringing one camera. I'm like, you're running in, and it's running on. Like I think that's, I agree with that. It's easier to get into that stuff. I think, you know, I started as an assistant for a long time. I was a assistant for Danny Klunch for four years, and that's kind of how his path was. He was an assistant and then went on tour with a band, and then started doing portraiture and stuff like that. So I've kind of tried to, I don't want to say copy, but like mimic the way that he did his work and how he just is so successful doing that. With musicians and being comfortable with musicians and going on tour was a good start. It's actually a great start. And I think that's good for me that I was able to start on tour. And now I can find stuff to like, you know, going into the studio and lighting somebody is a lot more difficult than going into a backstage area and finding some light. And I'm like, oh, I great. This is good. Click. Yeah, it's a lot more difficult and thought out into a lot more of a process. And yeah, stuff like that. And I'm a lot more interested in that kind of stuff. Would you say that the two of those like require different skillsets? So the kind of making use and being resourceful and the element of like being on tour versus there's almost a higher stakes and higher pressure because it's like when somebody hires you to do a portrait. It's like really more detail oriented. I would say yes and no to that question. You know, going on tour and doing stuff, you're going every single day. You know, foreigner rows, waking up doing a show, shooting it, waking up doing a show, shooting it. Like constantly. And I think it still is, you know, they still kind of go hand in hand where you still have to shoot yourself to expose, right? You still have to do stuff like that technically. But your mindset creatively is just a little bit different when you're going in and you know, shooting a show and you know, maybe you miss something. You're like, oh, well, he's going to do something later than next song. Like, that's okay, but if you miss something in a portrait setting, like you're off a focus or off this or off that, like it's done, like you're, but you kind of ruined that shoot. So it's, you can take a lot more chances doing tour photography and documentary and like dragging shutters or whatever you want to do and still be able to capture something where in a portrait setting, it's a little bit tougher to miss it. And then look back, oh my god, I missed the best moment of his, his or her facial expression. That's tough. So it's got the toughest thing about it. I think has to be the making decisions, which is the most important thing. But it's like, you can only really go in one direction. So say if you're, you're setting up a portrait shoot, like the look of that, the tone of that, the color of the backdrop, you can't just endlessly experiment with all these different looks. It's like you have to be think about the person that you're shooting and then say, all right, this is where we're going. Like maybe we can, like try a couple of different things out on the day of, but I feel like you have to have a really clear vision for sure. And I think with last week, I had a DJ come in and he wanted headshots just right here. He's like, I just want nice headshots for posters, you know, stuff that I can just put online that I can have like his name on with, you know, whatever club he's at. So that was like easy, great backdrop, light up, you know, one light, some fill and it was easy. Where then I had a client come in who was a YouTuber and she is very fun and she wanted a different color backdrops in different color, well, she was wearing different stuff. And I think that was a challenge to like get a backdrop, light it differently. Maybe throw some gels in there, then try to do like some flares and all that kind of stuff. It just make it a little bit different for her and I think that stuff is what I'm into. Like being able to be like, oh, well, if you like this, let's try this. Let's let's do something a little bit different and, you know, testing different lights setups. It's always fun for me. Right. Yeah, trying to get creative and trying to see, like how much of it is worked out on that the day of, like when you're something, I think sometimes I get methodical where I'm like, okay, I'm going to do this lighting, this is what I want to do and it doesn't work. You're like, okay, this is how working, this is not what I thought out. Let's move things around, let's try it out and things will just click in my head, like, oh, we should try this and like I'll just set up a light differently and it works out. So sometimes I try to, you know, you can plan as much as you want. You can plan to a T, exactly what you want to do, but there's always going to be a curveball. There's always going to be someone that's like, I don't like the way this looks or I don't like the way that my face looks. I don't like the way that the shadows are. Under my eyes or whatever it is and you just have to go with it and roll with it and make it work. So isn't that true, isn't it? Like every, I swear to every shoot, something goes wrong. Yeah, something goes like, you have a plan or like, this is exactly what's going to go and like, we're very risk-averse people where we're trying to, we want to make certain what we're getting into on the day of a shoot and then it's just like, oh, shit, the microphone's not working. Yeah, what do I, what do I do now and it's like, how do I deal with this or the light isn't what I expected it to be? So many times I've had shoots with like some big company. I shot at this doc design disruptors where we can film with like, it was like 25 different companies. Some companies would give us like the most beautiful rooms to shoot in and then some people would just put us in a side conference room. That's, there's nothing there and you're like, well, this is it. This is what we're shooting with. Steril white walls. You're like, yeah, you're like, I'm like, I'm going to do like, so we're running around the place trying to find plants, like big plants to put in the background and set dress it and you have to, I think like, there's, there's that element to it where you need to, it's about being able to deal with problems as they arise. Yeah, and I think that's what we're good at is being able to problem solve the day of and not stress about it. Like, you got to think about it and be like, okay, what do we need to make this work? Um, and I think that the boat's makes us good videographers photographers, whatever it is, I think that's part of the challenge. And fun, you know, it's fun, like, oh, all right, let's get this together and like, really make this work and make it happen. So how often do you have, have very many moments where you're like, oh, shit, I totally screw that one up. I mean, like, really bad. I would set really bad. Actually, I think the only time I didn't do it personally, I did it as an assistant and I messed up kind of bad, where I didn't reload a film correctly, film camera. I had like a house of blood and I didn't forward the film to one, and he, like, cut the shot and it's on like a blank shot. And, you know, Danny's a person that he understands, you know, like I was learning whatever, but he didn't, like, he doesn't know how to operate someone right in front of a client and pull me aside and be like, hey, you didn't do this and I missed a shot and this is not okay. And I think that's something that that was like the worst thing that's ever happened to me that I was like, oh my God, like, I can't make that mistake again. And, you know, like, we've gone on set and like, they'd be liked and work. Like, what do we do? Oh my God, like, one of the tubes and the keynote flows doesn't work anymore. And we had no idea. Like, trying to test up beforehand and like, you just kind of learn, but knock on wood right now, I haven't run into any like really bad problems, where things aren't working or anything like that. I try to really be prepared as much as you can, test everything before the day before, make sure everything's right. Yeah, um, I've done that. And what I was saying even before with like the mic situation ahead, it was actually the beginning of that documentary where we go on the day of and then our mics just aren't working. There's like static interference, which like we tested it beforehand, but when we got there in the day of, there was nothing we could do and I didn't have a backup. But then it's like, just like you, it's like, I need to make sure that's never going to happen again. What can I do? All right, now I always bring a backup mic with me to make sure that if this does happen, I have a resolution for it. Exactly. Um, you can't make the same mistake twice, especially when you have somebody like Danny who you're, you know, yeah, I couldn't. I was like, and then one of the things I remember like, you're like, oh, I want black and white and I put color in it by accident. And like the film stuff gets difficult, where you're like trying to film and then you have digital and you're trying to load like four cameras and all that kind of stuff in your by yourself and, you know, but you just are now conscious like, okay, I will never, ever, ever do that again, because he was like, I thought I should have this on color and it was black and white and it was his whole thing. Yeah. Um, but, you know, he was never someone that was screaming at me. It was always just like, come on, dude, like, don't do this again. Which I think in a lot of ways is like, it's not worse. Like, I think that screaming at somebody, I don't know, I just, I don't enjoy people that have that kind of mentality or that are just kind of rude and disrespectful because everybody makes mistakes. And like, it's, it's, he hired you. Yeah. You know what I mean? So it's like at the end of the day, it's like, you have to take responsibility for those decisions. Total hum, but I think, yeah, like, when somebody just pulls you to the side and you're like, listen, you can't, this can't happen again. Yeah. Which was super cool. I think he was the nicest, you know, even nowadays, I think people aren't hiring those types of photographers that are just like belittling assistants and junior art directors or whatever they're doing, they just, people just don't want it anymore. They're like, why are we hiring people that are being mean? Yeah. Like, there might have been this mentality where like, that was, that was just part of their creative. Right. That was very shit. Right. It was the fact that they have, you know, they're, they have this crazy high energy and they can be rude, but man, they're a genius. Yeah. And I think that people just don't care about that anymore. They're like, like, no, there's plenty of photographers. There's plenty of filmmakers out there. We can find somebody else that we can work with in our nice and kind of get it together. Yeah. So it's kind of just kind of funny. So you went to North, right, which is like the rival school of what he is the guy that the high school that I went to. What was that like, did, were you back into photography back then? So I did do a lot of photos, classes. I think I was doing it as elective because it was easy. You know, I remember Mr Barry, who was my teacher. I was like, he was super cool and we learned a lot, but I was, you know, I was a little cross player. And I'm like, that's what I thought I was going to do for the rest of my life. And I think when I went to school, I was doing a lot of video and doing a lot of photo and not like I did like business school and art and technology, which was kind of like graphic design and still was playing the cross. I was like, oh, this is what I'm going to do. And then I ended up getting hurt toward my ACL and I'm like, now what, what's the deal? What am I going to do? And I just had that creative like bug I think. I was like, I didn't want to be in this like business world or the graphic design world. I was like, I don't want to in front of a computer all day and I want to do numbers all day. I don't want to do any of this stuff like I want to be a photographer, a videographer, a director and I actually watched a DVD that Danny made and he directed it and it was John Mayer's where the light is DVD. I don't know if you ever seen it. But it was genius. It was done really well. John did like three different sets where he started off as an acoustic he then did his John Mayer trio set and then he did his John Mayer set and it felt like three different bands playing like an opener, a middle and then the end and it was so incredible. I was like, who's that director? Like, oh, it's Danny Clinton. Like, I don't even know who that is. I walked him up and just emailed. I was like, hey, I want to do this. This is what I want to do. Like, I love music. I love photography and I love your work and I think it'd be awesome. Like, what do you have? Like, what's you have an internship available or whatever? So I went in an interview in a full suit and I know a photo studio. I'm like buttoned up to the TV and like all this stuff and they kind of laughed at me. They're like, what is this guy in a suit? But they hired me. So I ended up interning with him and I just didn't want to leave. So this is the coolest ever. Like, I got to sit in like log footage for a Ryan Adams documentary. Like, this is incredible. Like, I could see all of what Danny was doing. And like, the first hired me a producer that I'm really good friends with now, she was like, hey, like, you should come down to Bond Room and just work. Like, what? Like, I can come in, like, work enough music festival. Like, an assistant buddy. Like, of course, that's what I want to do. That's my first job ever was coming down with Danny and like assisting and being a PA and getting coffee and getting water and whatever I needed to do to like, make it work. So I'm curious about that. That first email that you sent, like, how did you break through the noise? I'm sure that, you know, they get these kind of requests all the time. Yeah. Like, I guess, I mean, you were saying, I'll do anything. Like, what do you have any work previously done that you showed them? I had nothing. Yeah. I had zero. I had a little bit. And I think I had my resume together as, you know, I worked in an Apple store. So I think that actually helped. Oh, really? Like, I was a specialist in Apple store. So I kind of like, they needed help with, you know, one person's computer was broken. I was like, in the interview, I was like, I can fix that, fix it for them. And like, stuff like that. They're like, oh, this guy's kind of technical and can get it. And like, he was cool. And that was it. Like, they didn't really. I don't know how many internships emails they get to be honest. Like, when I was working there, it wasn't that many. So I think coming in and being like, oh, I'm from Jersey, Danny's from Jersey, like that whole connection helped. And, you know, I'm not really sure, actually, how they picked, I should ask actually. Yeah, yeah, because at least the economy who says studio manager's still there. But at least, what do you like, why did you pick me? Honestly, I had no idea. Yeah. That's a funny question. I really have no idea. Was it a paid internship? No. It wasn't paid, but I was working at the Apple store and doing that and going to school. This is you're in college at the time. Yeah. Was it Steven's tech? And, you know, I just hustled. I'm still hustling. You know, never ends. Never ends. It'll never end. And I think Danny still hustling at, you know, over 50 years. I think I just got to start to enjoy it. Yeah. You just got to realize like, this is it. Like, this is the fun part. Yeah. It's like the going after the jobs. Like, that excitement of getting a gig that you really like put a lot of effort in trying to lock down. Like, that's the best feeling. Making the decks, making everything. Yeah. It took like a week to like get it all together. And then, you know, I think at the email, it's like, all right. Let's do this. Like, super stoked. Right. It's crazy because you're like, you had already put so much effort in and you're like, this is the beginning. Now it starts. No, that's not really matters as much as what I'm about to do. Exactly. Um, that's cool. So then you do the internship and then you start to actually like go on the road and do do a little bit of stuff. Are you working on it? Well, so what I did, you know, it's funny. I was finished internship and there wasn't a job opening. There was really anything he had as a assistant. He had all his stuff. And I was like, what do I do? I asked Lee such as like, oh, you should go internet rolling stone and see if you want to go try that out. So I went into that dev dragon who was the photo director there and Sasha Leku who is now the photo director there. Um, I went in the same thing when I didn't like a suit and like they're like, oh, like Danny gave you a good recommendation. Like, let's do this. So I interned there, which was super fun. You know, you kind of learned how magazine works and how they work and what they're picking and what photographers are picking and how they're picking photographers and all that kind of stuff is really invaluable. Like, I forget how much I learned there, um, sometimes. So I did that and then this producer, Kerry Bornstein, was hiring me as a PA. So I was a PA for a year, I think, and I was nonstop doing commercials and like big stuff, which Steve and Myzel and you know, our Watson and all these huge, you know, different music videos with lady got gone all this stuff. So that was fun to see how big production works and then mostly she would hired me for Danny stuff. Like, if Danny had a music video or whatever he had, I was a PA. So then let's see, I did that and I was working as a photo editor for a little bit with Rolling Stone and Danny, I really wanted to work with them. That's all I wanted. I was like, I want to work with this guy. I want to figure it out and I went in. I emailed him and was like, hey, I can help you out with your Instagram Twitter, website, Facebook, all this stuff. If you let me come in three days, four days a week, like, I'll do this for you. And I brought him like a whole presentation, like, what I can do, how I can help all this stuff. I kind of just like sat it up, like, sat it out for myself, like, this is what I want to do. And he was like, cool. All right, me for that. And then, like, it's all timing. Like, this whole, as you know, like, this whole industry is all about timing, you made it easy for him, too. Like, you know what I mean? Like, you have to put in the effort. And nobody's going to do it for you. You can't just like send email like, hey, any job openings? Like, no, like, you've got to put in some extra leg work. Yeah. And I think he appreciated that I was like, this is how, like, I can do all of this for you. Instagram just started, you need to get your followers up and you need to get your stuff up. And, you know, he's over like 100k now because I helped him. I don't want to say it was just me, you know, his work is incredible. And I think that also helped. But just organizing in the right way and posting the right times and all that kind of stuff I helped him out with. And then, you know, someone who was his retoucher scanner, she left and then he was working on a book. And this girl who was working the book was also retoucher. She's like, oh, I'll take that job. And then he dang was like, hey, can you work on the book? Like, can you photo out of the book? I was like, sure, I'll do whatever you want me to do. Like, I mean, that's why I'm here. So I started doing that and then he started hiring me as an assistant. I was there. I was always like, trying to help out. And he, you know, throwing stone or whatever magazine had a little budget for an assistant, he'd hired me to do it. So I just went on, I would hand him cameras, whatever I was doing, load stuff, I knew what I was doing. And then it just kind of snowballed. I finished the book with him. I was a first assistant or third assistant, second assistant, first assistant. And then was full time with him. So I did it full time. But also was trying to be my own photographer, like shoot shows. That's a whole other thing. Like, how many hours you put in at this point? Your hustling story was nonstop. I literally would like, you know, even working on the book, we would sit and drink two bottles of wine together and be two o'clock in the morning and be like, oh my god, like we did a lot, but we would sit nonstop. The next day I'd come in, do a bunch of work and then a show would ship pop up and I like, I go shoot a show. So I go shoot the show and I was like, nonstop. I couldn't stop. I still don't want to stop. You know, I still want to keep shooting every single day, even though it's just to be a lot. But how old were you at this time when you were putting in these crazy hours? And 23, I think. Yeah, I started at 23 and then, you know, rolling stone help because I was, I could say that I shot on it's back for rolling stone and I'd go and shoot shows and I also was like sneaking in as an NYU photographer because I went to NYU for a semester. I skipped that part. But it's funny how these things, the experience builds. It's because it kind of catches up to you and you don't realize it because you got your head down, you're just working your ass off. And then you kind of take a step back and like, oh shit, like I do have this rolling stone credit. I have work with Danny and then like all these things add up to where all the sudden, I don't know if doors start to open but like when you knock on the doors, then they'll open. Like once you go to them, yeah, it's a little bit easier. It helps and I think people respect Danny so much. And I think I was on set with him and you know, as an assistant, you don't want to walk up to a client be like, hey, I'm like, I'm going to be a photographer soon or I'm going to do that. Like I never was that type of person. So I think Danny was always grateful for that and is now more likely to be like, oh, well, maybe Dan can do this or something like down like a job or whatever it is, like maybe Dan should do it or his oldest assistant, whatever like Josh was his oldest assistant. He'd pass it on the Josh or whatever it is. He was good like that. I think it's like patience, right? Like you had the patience to not be that eager that you're like asking for something as opposed to just standing back and be like, hey, anything you need, I'll help you out with. Yeah, because people can read right through that. They can read right through it if you like, you're like, hey, maybe I could, you know. Yeah. And I think like handing business cards out like I've heard stories of assistants doing that and like, then they get fired. But you can't be like, yeah, you're your assistant. That's what you do. And you follow the steps. And I think that's where I was trying to figure out like, how do I become this photographer? What do I do? What are the steps? I was researching and I'm like, you become an assistant, you learn and then you move on. And that's what I figured out. That's a big lesson, though. They, um, even like the the etiquette when you're working with like a primary shooter or whatever it is, if somebody hires you for a job, like we would see this with weddings from time to time, where like I, I was a filmmaker shot many weddings and then sometimes like I would sometimes have a second filmmaker there. Um, I haven't had that experience, but I've seen it where other photographers would bring a second shooter and the second shooter, I'd see them like hand their business card to somebody. And I'm like, oh, that's inappropriate. Yeah. Like you can't hand your personal business card to a potential client because you were working for this person, you're representing this company. It's not smart. It's not smart. It's not a good luck. And you're going to like quickly bury yourself. Because that's what it's like you said early on. It's, it's all about relationships. And like who knows, like that relation, I mean, I've, first of all, it's about being just a good person, too, right? And not like trying to get something and trying to really manipulate people to get what you want. But it's like, hey, I'm working for this person. I'm going to treat them with respect. And I'm going to do anything I can to, yeah, if I feel what they need me to do. Totally. And you know, I've met so many people through Danny and they're just like friends now. They're not like, I don't have to, you know, managers for certain bands or whatever, but I'm not like actively being like, hey, can I shoot, you're like, we're just friends and we have a relationship. And if there's a younger band that they're starting to manage, like, I'll shoot them. So I think that's always, uh, always good. And not asking for things and not reciprocating. I think that's always something that a lot of people do. Um, whether like, hey, like, can I come shoot this and then, like, if for any reason, they ask you to for something and you don't help them out, then, like, why, what do you mean? Like, you're not going to help me out with something that you, I helped you and all that kind of stuff. I'm just being a reciprocating relationship with people is always good. Um, I don't, did we touch any, I don't know a lot about Danny Clinton, like, how did he become so well known? And what's his backstory? So he is, let's say, so he's from Jersey, he's from Tom's river, he is, he started in New York City and he was assisting any leave of it for a while. And I think he did, like, Timothy White, who was a big photographer out here now. Um, Steve and my Zele, he, he assisted, so he assisted a lot of people and then moved into, like, the early 90s, he started doing hip-hop stuff. When no one wanted to shoot hip-hop stuff, and he was like, he was the guy, like, that shot ill-matic or shot the cover with two-pock for rolling stone with a shirt off. Um, he's got really iconic hip-hop stuff that not many people know that his shot, which is really crazy. Um, but now with the book, and it kind of helped. Um, so he started and hip-hop. That's all I did. He was like, no one else wanted to shoot that stuff. It's unbelievable. Like, I think he shot third base and then MC search was like, yo, you need to shoot this guy nasty, no, it's like he's the next thing and like, and it's elmatic cover. Like, this is incredible. And yeah, one of the greatest hip-hop albums. Like, ever. And he, you know, was shooting red man and shooting ODB and all these people and, um, like, does effects. And like, always like, random early 90s stuff. And I think that started his career. He started, like, that was the people that he were shooting and then moved into doing a lot of rock and roll stuff. So we did, well, he actually shot like the first Kanye record. He shot a lot of. He ended up shooting a lot of nozzles records after and then, um, started shooting like Bruce and Bob Dylan and Neil Young and Willie Nelson and all the stuff. So he transitioned from being this hip-hop photographer, went on tour with, um, blind melon. So that's a whole, um, thing too, which he's working on a documentary by Mill, which is going to really, really awesome. Um, but, you know, he, he grinded along. He did the same thing. And like, he started it from the bottom with the hip-hop guys that we thought, no one, you know, they were, they were nobody. Um, and now they're all more famous than a lot of these rock roll guys. Yeah, man. So it's, well, it's crazy because I feel like that that, and I'm not like too good with, with the history of music and everything like that. But I would imagine, you know, hip-hop started to take off in the 80s, like, mid to late 80s. Yeah. And then probably on all rolling stone, every cover was just rock and roll during that time. Yeah. And then so hip-hop was really untapped because it was just on the rise. Yeah. And then I imagine eventually probably in the 90s is when they started to make it on to the cover of Rolling Stone. Well, like no big magazine. I think like, I don't remember, like, I think the IT cover was the first, like, controversial, like gangster rap or on the cover. And he was in a cop outfit. And I just said cop killer on the flag of shit. So it was this whole thing. And I think that was like one of the big points of like hip-hop's here to stay. Um, and I think, but no one cared, no one wanted to shoot these guys. They were like, I'm not going to go into Queen's Bridge. Like when it was the hood, like, really bad. And like, go shoot some guy named nasty nods. Like, who is this guy? And then no one wanted to do it. Yeah. They were, I mean, and they were probably scared to go in and Danny was like, I'll do it. I'll care. That's like the rate. And they'll all love them at that point. And like, is there something about like that in terms of being specific about the genre or type of work because you do become known for in a way. I know a lot of filmmakers who start out, you know, making weddings or doing music videos. And that's all the work they can get in the future. Because all the work you get in the future is based on the work you've done in the past. So it's like, how have you seen that trajectory with the work you do? Um, I think, well, from going on tour, you start to become a tour photographer. And that's what I, you know, I love doing it, but I don't want to do that the rest of my life. And I think that's something that I've been trying to get away from and do more portraiture stuff. But I still want to stay in music, which is hard. You know, music is tough. I don't know. Have you done any music videos or anything like that? I had, I started out doing one of my first like earliest clients with robot films, which shows all the music videos, a lot of hip-hop music videos. And I would just do behind the scenes work for like Mario and Lady Gaga music videos. But that's it. I just did behind the scenes stuff. I didn't do actually primary. I mean, some of those, you know, they have budgets, but a lot of them don't have budgets. So yeah, most of them now, it's just like very bootstrapped. Yeah, only like the top performing artists get like millions of dollars in budget. And it's that like a million dollars is a lot of Taylor Swift maybe, but that's it. So, you know, it's tough to stay in music. So that's where the portraiture kind of comes into play where I'm like, okay, so now I can bring in these like either YouTubers or digital stars or digital creators and other people that aren't just musicians. But they do kind of translate over like they kind of overlap with like the way you're shooting something or like I shot this like one of my fiance's clients and you know, we went out to the desert and shot like a car and like a 66 Mustang. And like I could put any musician in any of those photos and maybe great. Like, so I think that you do have to have an overlap, but also you don't want to just pigeon yourself as a music tour photographer, because or a music photographer or a wedding, like it's just hard to break out of that pigeon hole. You probably got to do that soon. Like, I think that yeah, I think that there is some value in like when you start to get work and you're trying to get paid for the first time to just stick to one lane, but like you don't want to get stuck in that one line, because especially, I don't know, it just gets kind of like boring to do the same shit over and over again. You're like, because you master it and you're like, I want to do something a little bit different. I want to push myself and get a little bit more courage. For sure. I think there's also nothing wrong with being a tour photographer. Like, I loved it and I have so many friends that do it and it's great. And it's awesome. And there's a need for it for sure, especially for musicians, especially for people that need the content on Instagram or Facebook or whatever it is. It's awesome. And I have a lot of really good friends who are great photographers that do it. But that's just not me per se. Like, I think I love doing it for that tour. And if John were to call me and say, let's do another one, I'd be totally down for it. But to do like a vantour to do something different, I think I would probably pass on it and just stay in LA. You mean, yeah, like the ones that are, there's no budget for a bus or anything. Like stuff like that, I just don't think I would do depending on who it is, you know, someone that's, I really believe in. Like, right, love their music, maybe. Just all depends. That's the thing. Is that there, there's certain people that would reach out to you and you would be like, ah, it might be worth it just to take what six months or it's a drain to me. It's a lot of work and like being on the road even if like you have the, there's a budget for it and like you have a bus that you can stay on. All the stuff is like, it can get drained. And some people live for that shit. I don't. I'm like, I like a routine. I like to be at a home, especially when you're in a relationship. It's kind of tough to do the on the road there. For sure. I think, I mean, last year, so I can go into that where I was still working with Danny and then get a call from a manager that I'm friends with and he was like, hey, can you go on tour for two weeks? It's like, sure. Like, that's, that should be fine. Um, you get a call from another manager like, hey, like, do you want to go on tour for two weeks? I'm like, yes, sure. And like, here's the rate we have. I'm like, oh, great. That's actually really good rate. Like, whatever it is. Um, and it ends up to be with John Mayer. I'm like, oh, that's cool. They left that out. Yeah. They left that out. And so like, like, I think to end of the call, he's like, oh, and I had to ask. I was like, oh, well, who's this with? Like, I had no idea. So I went up to Albany. We did rehearsals and the first day they were like, John just liked everything I did and was like, can you do the whole tour? I'm like, I don't even know what the whole tour is. I had no idea. Um, and it ended up being like a month and a half from April to May. And then a month off. And then another month in Europe. And then a month off. And then another couple of weeks or two months. Two months in US again. And then a couple of weeks off. And then Brazil for a couple of weeks. So it was a lot. And in between all of that, I moved to LA from New York. I left being the assistant. I got engaged. I did all this like crazy stuff in all last year. And it just all happened so quickly. And now in LA, it feels good to just work on myself and work on the stuff that I want to work on. So right. I think that's the thing. Anytime you take on a big commitment or a big project, you realize that you're going to have to say no to a lot of other stuff. And it's going to make everything else a little bit more challenging. And that's why I think it's so important to kind of to make those decisions thoughtfully. I think in the beginning, it's like to take on a big opportunity like that is huge to be like, yeah, I'm going to do this. But then like as you start to progress and you get more accomplishments under your belt, it's like, all right, if I'm going to write a book or if I'm going to make a featured documentary or whatever it is, it's, it's a lot of work. And you need to make sure that that's the path that you really want to go down. Yeah, I mean, for you too, like the documentary state, those could be a year long. More than that. And prepping and all this kind of stuff, I think even for tour photography, you have to block out six months of your life. And there's nothing wrong with it, but then you have to turn down stuff. You know, you have to turn down maybe a magazine calling you. But hey, can you shoot this? You're like, no, I'm in Kansas City. You know, I can't. So I kind of want to stay around and stick around for a minute. And hopefully I can start getting that kind of work. And that's what I'm working towards. And you know, we'll say. So it seemed like you, you must have been on like Instagram pretty early. I mean, you had to add, yeah, you got to add Daniel, man. Like how the hell did you get that? So it wasn't as early. It was like four years ago, three years ago. My fiance does a lot of digital stuff. And she found out that it was an empty account. And it wasn't really an in, like, she just kind of was like, hey, can can we have, again, my boyfriend had this in the lecture? Oh, she knew. So she knew some kind of like, it was like someone who was low in, but like, it just, they were like, yeah, no one has it. No one had it. So you got that at Daniel. So yeah, so it works. Yeah. It's fine because your Twitter is your last name, which is like really hard to spell. My website is my last name. Like, oh my god, I need to change all this stuff. You need that Daniel.com. Oh, I've looked for all that stuff. Yeah, my, my, my friend Josh who's in minimalism, he, he got, I think it's at JFM for his Twitter. And it was just because he reached out to them. And he's like, hey, nobody's using this. Can I use it? Yeah. And then eventually, I think you just kept pounding him. Yeah. This is like the same years ago, too. And they changed it. So I feel like there's something there. Do you have the the the check mark on your ears? No, yeah, got to get that check. I'm trying. I don't have it on your mind, but I'm like, how do you do it? Because I applied through Twitter. And then they're like, now you're not it yet. Oh, Twitter, I, Twitter is hard. Is that Twitter is hard? You have to really be like, we'll talk about that later. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like somebody needs to know you or like, you need to have a connection there for it to be able to work out. Well, uh, also, uh, I'll talk to Lisa. Maybe she. You know, I really push something through for it. Yeah. I feel like it makes a difference. Because I mean, it's, it's, you shouldn't judge people based on these things. They're not, it's not like it's not like overall like definitive judgment. But it is a, if I see that somebody comments on my thing and they have a thing. And I'm like, oh, who is this person? Yeah. They must immediately. You're like, well, it's credibility for you too. I mean, you have the director credits. You should be like, I think Lisa has it because she's a producer. She has it because she's as all the IMDB credits. Yeah. So there's a way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're talking about that. There's a way. Um, that was cool though, because that you, uh, but I mean, you did see it pretty early on with Danny Clanch and like starting his Instagram. Uh, how have you seen? I feel like that's the platform right now for visual creatives. Yeah. Instagram seems to be first. But I also think you can't focus just on that. I think when, if, I mean, we all know with Mark Seliger right now, you know, you know, we have no idea if Instagram goes away tomorrow. Half of the photographers that are on there might not know what to do. Um, like where do you go then? Um, so I think knowing both sides is good being doing the traditional side, assisting working, getting editorial work, stuff like that, then getting your ad work is good to know, but also knowing the digital side and how to get work through that. Um, because you would, the market you don't know, you have no idea. It's like investing. I mean, it'll be crazy. Just put all your money in one company and all on one thing. And that's what you're doing, like literally putting all, if all your focusing on is Instagram. Yeah. So like it probably would make best sense to maybe pick two three social media platforms, but then also like you said to be focusing on the actual professional work. I think that's what you should always be focusing on. But the majority of the time is just the work that you're creating and then figure out a way to make it look good online or figure out the best photos or videos to post on social, but like who said it? Um, I forget who said it, but uh, well, back Sharon, who I had on the podcast, she was saying how, um, you, I don't want to be somebody who's known for being good at Instagram. I want to be somebody who's known for being an amazing, an amazing nutritionist, like that's what I want to be known for. It's the work that I do. It just, I also happen to have a great Instagram account. Um, which I feel like if that's what you're doing, you feed your focus on your art and craft, then that's the best way to, well, there's like two sides of it. You know, there's, for me, so my favorite photos that I've taken don't get as many likes as me going to the beach and taking a sunset photo. It's like what looks good on Instagram might not look good on an ad or might not look good on a billboard or might not look good on a bus stop or whatever it is. Um, so I just think that you have to be able to do both and know that like you can be a photographer, videographer, but you need to know how to do the social media stuff too. Um, but some things don't also translate over. I think like, I've seen some videos that look cool on my phone, but then when you put them on a screen, they don't look as, they don't look any, any better. They're like, wait, this doesn't look, this looks cool in a square format, but it doesn't look cool on, you know, 4k big screen, like, mm-hmm. So, you know, I think you just can't focus on that stuff. And well, you know, all my fiance does, she finds creators that, you know, aren't just YouTubers or aren't just models on Instagram or whatever they are. She finds these people that are real creators and molds them into traditional talent. So, an actor or an activist or somebody and you just can't pigeon yourself into just a digital person for her. I think she's like, she's smart enough to be like, oh, you need to have a real career too. I'm like, you need to have an acting career or a music career or something else because if YouTube is gone tomorrow, you got to need to figure out what you're going to do. Yeah. So, I think it's a thing too, like, with a lot of creatives, like, you can't just be a singer these days. You need to be able to dance and you need to have all these other skills and talents that accompany. That's right. So, as a filmmaker, you can also dab on the photography or motion graphics or whatever it is. I think it's, it's really important, especially early on, to be like resourceful and be able to do a lot of stuff yourself. Because in the beginning, you're going to get a client that's going to come to you and say, hey, can you do this? You know, but I got, yeah, I can figure out how, you know, maybe don't tell them that's like, all right, I'll figure out how to make this motion graphic work. Yeah. Um, well, I'm a friend that did that. So, he, he actually came to Brazil with me and helped me do some video stuff with John and he's a great video guy. He, he's a good editor and he got into doing stage videos, visuals for, for artists. And he loves it and he's killing it with it, but he also can do video. So he's doing all these stage graphics and like, we'll go out and film something and then just like edit it and we're creative different ways and he's making a huge business all of it. Wow. And that's incredible. That's a lot of cool example of like taking that specific craft of filmmaking and like, how can I use it in a different way? Yeah. And this is just like the visuals that would be behind like on the stage or on the background during a live performance. Yeah. So, and he like found a little niche that like, a lot of people weren't doing. He absolutely killing it and it looks great. And he did like part of next doors and me goes and like he's been working with partner Xorfer a while, but he does a lot of G easy, he did like a ton. And also cool. Yeah. So that's like high stakes too, man. Yeah, live shows like it's got a really look right and feel right and not like it's got a contribute to the show without taking away from it. For sure. So you just started, what was this transition? So was it going, while I was going from, you know, working with Danny to John Mayer, loosely doing that tour and then coming back and now you're like hardcore freelance mode? Yeah. That's pretty good just of it. Yeah. Basically, you know, I went on tour and then, you know, I saved a lot of money being on tour. Yeah. And that helped me find a studio. God, and I was like, I need a place to shoot. I want to do studio stuff. I want to get editorial work. This is what I want to do. So moved into that and then I just started emailing and calling and texting and anyone that I can get a coffee, a lunch, a dinner, a drink, anything that I can do that maybe someone could hire me for. I'm doing how to mess up. What's that? That's just a hustle man. That is, and I'm by myself. So it's not like I have an agent doing it. I'm going to meet some agents, but I just, I don't know how much I can take away from me and continually doing it because I actually enjoy. Yeah. How in people, but like, yeah, you might not need it. Especially at this point, it's like, I would just be, I've had some meetings with some agents and stuff and nobody, nobody wants to, nobody wants to sign me now, but they're all like, like, yeah, like, let us know on that next project. But I'm like, yeah, I don't know if I want to give you like 10 to 15 percent of what I'm doing or something that I found for myself. Yeah, especially today, it's like we can just create shit on our own and figure it out. And I think there's probably a place down the road where that might be appropriate. If you want to really start to book Baker's stuff, but it takes a lot of hustle. What has been the conversion of success? Like, I mean, you go at all these people that you reach out to. It's like, how many of them turn into a paying gig for you? Um, let me think. Right now, specifically, I think maybe three or four people will tap into already, which is great. I don't have any people that you reach out to, just like dozens and dozens, hundreds. I mean, I've, I'll sit in DM people, I'll sit in email any photo editor. I can possibly get my hands on. I'm, I just cannot stop. I'm like, because I get in this weird mode of like, I need to work. Always. And if I'm not editing or retouching or whatever I'm doing one week, I have to be shooting the next week. If I'm not doing it that day, I have to be shooting the next day. Like, stuff like that. I have to keep myself busy or I get in this weird, like, cabin fever type issue. Like, I can't be in my apartment. I can't be driving around doing nothing in errands or doing laundry. Like, I have to do stuff. Um, and what, so when you're reaching out to these people and like, a lot of it will be lunch or coffee or whatever, like, is, what's the approach? Or is it different every time? Is sometimes it's like, like, hey, you know, I'm currently taking on work. Like, how does, like, how you normally message people? I would say, it's more like, hey, let me go. You can't go out at 100 coffees. No, no, but I, I did it the other day. I was like, I had someone with interscope. I had someone that's a freelance producer and then someone like, you just like, back to the other. Like, you're like, back to back to back to back and I'm running around that ledge. It's like, full having tea. Is that, yeah, yeah, coffee or a lot of the eight coffees in a day? Um, but yeah, you have to, I think a lot of it is intros to, from people, like, my fiance helps me with intros and then other people have insured me to other people and all that kind of stuff. And then I'm like, hey, like, let's go get lunch and then hopefully that will be the way to get into with people. Because I think face to face is so much better than, like, email and be like, okay, I'm available for work and maybe like, okay, cool, I'll keep you in mind. Like, don't ever, no, I say that to people all the time. I have the time to say, yeah, it's like, oh, yeah, I'm not keeping mine for future stuff archive. And then, because it's like, it takes a lot of effort for me to recall people. And especially when somebody else is going to message me a couple of weeks later, for sure, with the same request. I'm like, eh, it doesn't matter. You can't do it, like, especially for photo editors. Like, they get hundreds of emails a day from photographers who want to shoot for the magazine. And it's really hard to get anybody to respond to you. I think I got three responses out of the 50 emails that I sent one week. And it's like, fine, I can get it. You have to send promos out. You have to send this stuff out. You have to get meetings with people and like, you just have to hustle. And, you know, sometimes an agent, that's what we, to touch on that point can help with the relationship to get you in the door with certain editorials. And that's something, you know, that's really helpful. Because when people see you and talk to you and know that you can have a conversation with a photo editor, then you can have a conversation with a talent or you can have a conversation with the people that are their shooting or whoever it is and you can make it happen and you have someone be comfortable. So the face to face is needed, I think. And email is not going to just like, it just doesn't work. Yeah, I think. I mean, those are the huge stakes too. If you do a magazine cover isn't not only just dealing with the talent, but making sure you deliver. And there's only a lot of times it's like, here's 30 minutes. Yeah, the talent. If that's really five. I've had like, I've had like a five to 10 minute shoot. Who is it with? Can't remember now. But it was like, yeah, let's do it real quick. I'm like, okay, I think it was Jay. It was um, I can't remember now. But it was literally like, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click. I would do here. You cheer, cheer, and that was it. You just like, are you like, not anxious, but just like kind of like, a little bit jittery. Like, a little bit. Yeah, I know that I can make sure my settings are great. Makes like, I'll lock my settings. I'm like, I have the light already. It's all good. Yeah. And make sure it just focus and take enough that there is one that's focused. Yeah, we had that with Dwayne Wade where it was, we got flown down to, we did a two years in a row because he was with this, I don't know if he's still with them, but this clothing brand Lee Nate. Lee Nate, I think it is. Yeah, like a Chinese Nike. And so we went down to New Orleans for the all-star weekend and it was like, the all-star weekend with Dwayne Wade and we're supposed to like, we didn't really get to follow him around. Personally, we would follow him around when he was in public at the live stuff. But then like, we wouldn't like go back to his hotel room, but he needed to feel like that. And he needed to, we only had one interview with him that was five minutes with like all these other people around and like trying to figure, like during the middle of this event, it's like, how do we make this seem like an intimate conversation? Yeah. Five minutes. Every question is important. Like if, if, if one had somebody else asked the questions and then like the first one, I understand you kind of wanted to be a softball, but I'm like, you just threw away a question. Yeah, you know what I mean? Like we only five minutes. You need to make sure every question lands and there's an excitement to those situations. We're like, oh shit, like it's all coming down this one moment. Yeah. And then when you when you get it, you're like, oh, fuck, thank God. Yeah. Thank God. Yeah. I think God has worked out because I only had five minutes and yeah, you can't redo it. No. And it makes sense with these people. Like the, you know, the big stars, it's their time is very precious and they don't have, they can't give it away to everybody. Yeah. For sure. I mean, I just did a thing with with Jeezy and still house is like whiskey. And you know, he was leaving him for Paris the next day for tour and like not that he didn't want to be there. He just like, he was tired. He was a Buddhist, but then you just got to get him going and we only have like an hour and a half and maybe two hours and we shot and took a little break and then shot for another like hour and that was it. And hour seems like a long time, but it's not when you're shooting as, you know, you're like, wow, that went by quickly where you're moving light, you're moving stuff, you're talking with him, you know, whatever and it's gone. Yeah. I mean, if you have two hours to set up, you'll use two hours and 15 minutes. Yeah. It's always, you know, you're always kind of tweaking and you can always adjust something. Yeah. What we were talking a little bit before they started about free work. Yeah. How do you, how do you view taking on free work? I think it depends on the relationship and who is asking for, I don't think anyone's really asking for free work. Sometimes I'll offer it to people like different managers or agents or people that work with a lot of different artists. I think artists relationships and just being able to know the people that have different artists with them, like the manager that has four different clients. There's one client that doesn't have a budget. The other client has a huge budget. They need photos for stuff. The client that doesn't have a big budget. I'm like, sure, let's just do that. And then the next day, let's go shoot whoever else and have a budget for it. So I try to offset it with that and know who I'm offering free work to. But a lot of it, I just don't want someone to come to me and be like, hey, can you shoot me for your portfolio? Well, I can make that judgment call of who I want in my portfolio. And if that's something that I can offer for free, great. If I think that something is really good for me and my portfolio to put in on my website, whatever it is, I could do it for free. If it's someone that's going to come to me and just be like, well, I don't have any money and but it'd be good for you. Like, well, let me decide on that one. Yeah. So I got that so much early on. And a lot of people, so many people who just message you and be like, we don't have a big budget, but like, you know, would be good for your portfolio or it would be a really fun project to work on. And I'm like, all that you know, if this is going to be, it's like, especially once you start to build up your experience, like, you don't, you're not doing this for fun. I mean, you enjoy it. You love the work, but you do it because you get paid for it, because you're passionate about it, but like, at the end of the day, it's a job. Yeah. And you need to make money for sure. And I think even like it, let's say an editorial hits me up or anybody like, we only have 200 bucks. Most of the time, I'll be at sure. Depending on like the usage or, you know, whatever the embargoes are, whatever they are, you know, if they're small enough and but it's a good project, I'll do it. Especially when you're starting out, I think it's, it is hard to get those bigger budgets and get a bigger ad gig or bigger, whatever. You just have to do a lot more smaller gigs. So I think it's been working out. I think I've all said it enough where I've done a lot of free stuff, but also done a lot of paid stuff. And it's enough. I think I have a good balance. I feel like it probably pretty wide range when you're starting out, like, in terms of the rate that you would charge for like, you charge, also, do you do like hourly or do you do day rates? Day rates. You do have day rates as well. I just fold day. If it's a day, it's a day, it's a day. Even if it's like an hour and a half. Yeah. I'll just charge a day. Depending, again, it all depends on who the person is. If I have a good relationship with this manager, agent, whatever it is, and then like, hey, we only have this much money for a half day. Can you do it? Most of the time, I'll say yes, depending on what it is. It's all kind of client-based and who the person is asking. Trying to think, like, there is a day rate for, I mean, for video stuff, too. But for me, I have to worry about usage. I'm, I'm sure you have to get worried about it all the time. Like, how much you're using it for a year or using it for, are you buying out my footage? Are you buying out my photos? I think that actually might be a difference. And maybe that's just that I haven't really, I haven't cared to look into that as much. It's like, I feel like with photography, I hear more about that. It's like, what's the usage look like? It's like, how long do you have, or like, getting access to the raw files? Usually people are asking for raw files with film. And like you said, a lot of times we just, it's fluid and you have to figure out, well, do I, like, this client, like, I just had a client, one of my biggest clients for years, and they asked me for all, like, the archival footage of everything that we've shot, because I recently stopped doing client work, so I can't really do anything for them. And like, I didn't charge them anything for, I was like, here you go. Like, because they were like an amazing client, just the best people in the world. And I'm like, of course, like, you know, it's as much as your footage as it is mine. Yeah. And I don't know if people work like deal with that with with film as much, because it is like getting the raw files, I feel like I know photographers are don't want to give away the raw files, because the edit is as just as much of that project as the initial shoot, right? For sure. And so how do you approach those kind of, I've only gotten asked for raw files once so far, and I was okay with it because it was an ad shoot. I was like, that's fine. You can have it like they're paying me good money. Yeah. I was okay with that. And there were cool people. But usually if I'm sending photo, I'll never send anything bigger than like a JPEG, depending on like if I'll send like a hundred photos, be like, here's my edit from the shoot. Tell me of 10 to 15 that you want to use, I'll re-touch them and send you high res. But I'll never give raw files. It's like giving away your film. Like, if I shot a bunch of film and like someone's like, hey, can I have the actual negatives? Like, no, you can't, like that's the thing. And see, people don't know, I don't know. I think the raw files is a weird thing for me. Like, I don't want to give anybody anything that I don't have an edited. Right. Unless it's somebody that paid for it, I guess. I don't know. I'm trying to think of how, I think this is the thing is that it's not so straightforward, but it is like, well, the one thing I would say is that I generally wouldn't like early on, I wouldn't take any freelance projects. Actually, no, I would take freelance projects whenever, like, I would shoot it and then maybe I would just shoot it and I wouldn't do any editing. But then eventually it came to a point where I was like, man, it doesn't make sense to just do these one-offs where I shoot for the day and then I hand off all the footage and then I don't have any other contact with the project because when I started to produce my own projects, we're directly with the clients, you're making way more money. And you charge project rates. And you charge day rates, but you can also charge a project rate. We're like, okay, this is going to cost 5,000 or 10,000, whatever it is. You can't really charge that for like, if you're just shooting. Yeah, because you have just your day rate and that's it. So I found that being a control of the entire thing, you could make much more money. And then also you have a vision for how you're going to execute on it and you're going to be able to deliver way better than somebody else if you're just handing that footage off. Yeah, that makes a lot more sense. And I think, when you're shooting photos, you're, especially on an ad shoot that they want the raw files, you're there with, you know, an art director, a creative director, you know, there's multiple people on set and they're editing while you're on set. So I'm shooting and like they'll five star something or their three star something or whatever it is. So they are already kind of editing what they want and then I go in and edit what I want and then they have everything into just easier. Where if like, you know, an editorial comes along and you don't want to give them all those files and they only use it for the one time, they get it for the one magazine and then they're yours. You all know that stuff. So most usually. So I just, the raw file thing is always a weird thing for people and I try to use the film thing, but I give you my negatives and that kind of gives people a little more perspective yeah. Oh, be like, oh, that kind of makes sense. How did you know what the charge is a day rate? And I'm sure, like, has it increased over? I mean, just, I guess, the freelance stuff has been pretty recent, but like, how did you know when to start out? Is there like an industry standard that you're thinking about or you just like, yeah, this is what my times were? There's no industry standard. I think everyone's different and their kind of is when you get to a certain level, you know, 10 of the biggest famous photographers probably all have their the same rate. What's like the high end rate for like the top 10 photographers in the world? Is it like for ad for editorial? It's different for everything. It's an ad. It's probably like, you know, $50,000 a day. It could be. But hilarious, which is ridiculous. Yeah, which is so crazy. I mean, I've seen Danny get, you know, really good rates. And you're like, oh, that's, that's really cool. And then he can, you know, do those little shoots that don't have any money. Yeah. That's what I love about that. And that's what I love about Brian Bowen Smith was that like, you can do these massive budget things. He's big artists stuff. And then the next day, it'd be the working with like somebody who currently is is no name that nobody knows who they are. And you have to be open to that. You have to, especially, you know, Danny had no idea who my melon was. He was, he was, I think he was shooting for that band live. Do you remember that band live? That was from Pennsylvania right over there. Yeah. And blackmail was opening for them. And I think Danny didn't really vibe with them or something like that. And then blackmail came along and he was like, he came friends with those guys. Like, on the road. And they're like, oh, we're, we're going to be the next thing. And he's just like, oh, cool. Like, what's going on tour? Anyone on tour with them? And then they blew up the absolute blew up. Wow. And you know, they did Woodstock in 99 and went on tour with the stones. And they went on tour with, I think they went on tour with Neil Young, right? Anyway, they just became huge. And you just don't know. Yeah. And even for John stuff, like, there are two, there was an opener, Laney. I don't know if you know who they are. And they're starting to like, really blow up. So I, you should photograph those people because you never know what, what's going to happen. And I think the people that have gotten in early, like Danny has the early photos of Nas, those are the photos that are going to sell. Everyone wants the photo of him under Queen's Bridge. Like, that's so cool in 92. Like, that's what people want. And Kanye and like a bear suit that was his first record. Like, that's the coolest ever. It's crazy. And have those photos. To have this cool. It's cool. And no one wanted to do that stuff because they're just no names. Yeah. And you have to do that stuff. So when somebody reaches out to you about a project, who are they usually coming to you? I'm sure it's different every time. But for the most part, are they coming to you and saying, like, hey, we've got a budget. And this is it. Or is it like, hey, what do you charge? Like, because I think there is an importance there between a lot of times people want to pull a rate and get a number from you. And I definitely remember me being more like if they've had experience and done video work before, I can be like, well, what's your budget range? Because sometimes they would blow my mind. They'd be like, you know, well, we've got like a $50,000 budget for this. And I'm like, oh, shit. I would have to give you a portion of half. Right? Right. If that. Right. And there was one time where somebody actually said, we have 35 on the phone. We're like, yeah, so their budget's 35. And then I remember like, I mean, like, are a cool, that sounds great. And then hanging up with them and being like, do they mean 3500 or 35 that? And like, not knowing. And then being like, how do I follow up? And I emailed him and like, hey, so can you just like recap our call and just kind of go over the bullet points with budget and all that stuff? And so then that way, I could get it in writing. And I think 35,000. And I was like, because I was like, 300. I was like, I probably wouldn't do it for that. That would be way too much. I would do it. But what the fuck? Yeah. So I guess like, right, that's that's important to try to get that out of them. But how do you approach those conversations? I think if someone came to me and was like, hey, we have a shoot for you in mind. This is what's happening. What's your rate? I usually just say, hey, this is my day rate. And for usage, we'd have to negotiate, but I can work with any budget that you have. So I'll give them the option of, here's what I can, here's what I would offer. If you need to go below that, I'm willing to do it. But you have to let me know in what we can do. And that's kind of how I always approach it. I try to, you know, you want to, you want to make money. Everyone's making money. And you want to make, like, your art and your time worth it. And if they only have X amount of money, when they come back from like, what you given them, then if you want to do it, you just do it. Yeah. So it does vary. Something like, hey, I have like 800 bucks for a project. Do you want to do it? Like, many have to go in there. What is it? What are we doing? What's the, what's the scope? Like, yeah, what's the deliverable? Yeah, which most likely, I'll just be like, okay, let's do it. Because I like to just keep working. As much as I want to keep making money, but there's also, you know, you just don't know who this person, this person could blow up tomorrow. I don't know. Yeah, it depends like, if the, the advice that I've been giving is that like, if you get a project that you're just not excited about, that you're like, I really don't want to do this, then just like, triple your rate, quadruple your rate, whatever, just say a crazy number, yeah, because do the times that I've done that most of the time, they've actually accepted it. Yeah, I'm like, oh, shit. Okay, because that's to do it now. Yeah, I guess my rate just went up. Yeah, if that's what people are paying me for it, that becomes my rate. Yeah, I totally agree with that. I think if you don't want to do it, just, you know, go as high as you want to see what happens. What else have you learned about freelancing over the past couple months? I mean, the biggest thing is just getting a relationship, so making sure that you meet as many people as possible. And going to show, I mean, as a music person, I go to shows, I go to, you know, any event that I possibly can go to, I'm just trying to meet everybody. Um, and there's like photo, expose it, like, expose that that happened. There's one in Palm Springs that I need to start going to. Meeting photo editors, meeting other photographers, meeting brands, meeting anybody that you possibly can. I think that's the most important thing as a freelancer to just grow your network. Are you naturally good at that? Like the networking stuff? Or is that some of you kind of push yourself into? Like, say, like, you go to a party or an art gallery or exhibit, like, are you naturally want to just spark up conversation with people? Yeah, I think I'm pretty good at it. I like to say that I'm like, for some reason, everyone says that I have a face that people want to talk to, which is really weird. Yeah. I'm like, oh, I can say it's ready to. Yeah. It's just kind of funny. They're like, they, you have like this approachable face. Yeah. Like, like, I think people, it's probably like a demeanor, too. Yeah. Being welcoming and not, you know, having resting bitch face. Yeah. If we were like, turn it off. I mean, I might smile too much sometimes. Right. And I think people like that. And I'm, I'm, I would say, naturally good at it, depending on the situation, sometimes I'm like, I don't feel like talking to somebody now. Um, yeah, like you happen at Uber. And you're, uh, I just want to close my eyes and yeah. Like stuff like that. I can't, I'll be like, I don't want to do that. Uh, but it just depends. I think a lot of the time I'm pretty good at it. Yeah. I feel like if you're, because I don't know, I probably lean more towards being shy when I'm out in public. Yeah. And it's like for me, and even doing like the hustle that you've been doing, where it's like reaching out to all these different people and trying to build these relationships, it's like, it's, it's a lot of work. And I'm like, when you're not, when you, when you're not doing that, like, you have to really step it up and like have your work speak for itself in a way. But I feel like you have both of this, which is a killer combination, like, work is amazing. But then also like to have that hustle and that drive to be able to go out and like reach out to like 200 people to try to get. Yeah. Projects is like, I literally will go on like a DM tear. Like, I'll sit on my, my Instagram just be like, hey, we should get a shoot together. We should do that, especially that, and you know, some people get back to you, so we don't, but most of the time it works. Yeah, I had a Dylan Schwartz who's like, uh, he's got a really great Instagram, um, like really beautiful photos. He's like, a life photographer here. And he was saying that was like the biggest thing for him. It was like the new cold calling was just DMing people and brands on Instagram because like he has a big following. He has, like, as portfolio is there. Yeah. So that's like the best way to just reach out to somebody as opposed to sending an email. And then they have to click through to your work. Generally, people get a message from you on a DM from you on Instagram. And it's interesting enough to read. They'll probably click on your profile. Yeah. So, oh, what's this guy about? You know, he's done some pretty dope shit. Yeah. And I, I do it with like record label people or people that are our directors are not just artists or not just people. Like, I'm I'm looking everywhere. If there's someone that could potentially get me anything, I'm gonna DM them. See what happens. So how do you find these people? Because that's been one thing with the podcast is like trying to find new guests for the show and trying to find interesting people to interview. And it's certainly location-based. Like, you know, what people that are in LA or in LA often. It's like, how would you go about finding those kinds of people? Like, is it, like, how would you, like, say if you're on Instagram? Like, where do you go to try to find these people? I literally will go on the website. Let's say I went on interscopes website and look who the creative directors are. If I can find them, I will look at LinkedIn. I'll look at all these places. And then I'll just look for their name on Instagram and try to find them. Most of the time, it's pretty easy to, you know, search the Ampercopject. And I'll, my Instagram will come up. But that's how I was doing it. I was just researching. I literally would just sit in front of my computer and research and research rituals. And I'll make a note and I'll put it in all these things. Yeah. Yeah. Make sure that I have them all together. And then I'll have different note. I'd use notes all the time, which is kind of an organized thing. Yeah, notes is like, I use notes too on my iPhone and like my desktop. But it's like, it's hard to organize it. It's so organized. Yeah. There's a new, there's a Google note thing now that someone just turned me on to. Oh, is there? They just don't have a good enough app yet. Once they do, I think it'll work. I got to check that out. Because there was ever note, but I feel like ever note was almost too complicated. Yeah. I can never, I'm like, it's too much. Yeah. I feel so hard. I mean, you have to rely with notes. You just have to rely on the search function and your memory to be able to recall. All right. Did I put in this keyword? Yes. And like, that's the easiest way to say. I always like put this top in all caps, like photo inspiration websites, or, you know, people that I need to hit up or people like I put it all caps, I could just scroll through and look through it. Yeah. But that's, I was, I'm doing so much research. I'm trying to find anybody that I can and just hit up. And, you know, artists that I like, or I sit and listen to serious radio all the time when I'm in the car. And I think that'll help me find different artists. Oh, this guy's super cool. I would love to shoot this person. That's really it. It's a lot of research. Are you pretty well organized with like both that part of the hustle as well as like the photos that you edit, or like if you look at your desktop, but it just be crazy. That's the most stressful thing in the world to me. If I ever see like screenshots or whatever on my desktop, they have to go into a folder. I'm, I'm organized when it comes to that stuff. Yeah. Um, my archive is all organized all my date and all, but like, I need to make sure that that stuff is organized. Like, I'm a kind of OCD when it comes to stuff like that, which is good. It's great. Um, I can't stand it. Like, all my dropbox completely organized like literally. Is it? Yeah. It's all by date. It's all by you. Does it ever get out of organization? Are you always on top of it? It won't. Damn, that's great. I got to do that because like I, I'm the person that's like once a month or every couple months, I'll go in and reorganize everything and then sort it. But, uh, I feel like I just need to set up a system that I stick to because it's so frustrating. So frustrating where was this and just have all these dude, my girlfriend's laptop is her desktop is terrifying. She has so many things that you're like, it's stressed out even here. Yeah. It's like so many icons that the icons overlap each other. Oh my god. That's like, and then they go to the finder to find everything and like, why are you doing this? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, it's nuts. Yeah, I try. I try to say pretty, pretty organized with it and like, dude, especially when you're working on a project. It's like to be able to know where it is and to be able to have like, separate folders for different like parts of the project. Like now even like with this, I'll do like headshots afterwards and some behind the scenes headshots and making sure each one is nested in a different folder because when you go back to it, you just want to make sure it's there every time. Exactly. I think so some Danny had an archivist and you know, basically an organizer for his whole archive when I was there and she would literally make sure she's like, you have to do this or like 10 years down the road. If you don't have things where you want it to be, it's a pain in the asked to find. My Danny was like, oh, I need to find a photo from 1992 where I was out with somebody and you're like, where was there's folders and folders and like, yeah, he started like, even not sure how to organize things and she had to come in and like reorganize everything. So she kind of embedded in my mind, like, do what by date, do what by this and you'll have everything organized for the rest of your life. And you know, that's invaluable stuff to them. So how is that awareness actually? Like the if you were like folder to subfolder dates, like, how does that work? I just go by year and then I go by date. So I'll do like, what's today then? What is today? 11th 12? Yeah, April 12th 12th. So I would just do 04 or I do 18, 04 11, dash, matte about like, that's what I would put. Oh, and then the person's name or person brand, whatever it is. Because in that way, if you work with a deed is twice, then you have different days day one day two, I'll put in or if it's a bigger shoot and stuff like that. And that's like in the primary, so on hard drive. Yeah. So that's in the primary, like the first thing you open up is just all these dates. I do it by I'll make sure I do it by year because it just makes it easier. Okay, year first year. Yeah. And then you go into 2018 and then you go. Yeah. Yeah. Do you have a backup system that you use? Yeah, it's tough with video. I feel like with photos, you could probably just replicate a drive. Yeah. Well, I use I have a drawbow and I've been working with them and they're awesome. What's that? It's a cloud and I have like 64 gigs or terabytes. Sorry. It's still terabytes in this bay. And I just stick in different hard drives and it's a physical, it's a physical thing. But what it does is it free floats around all of them. So if one drive fails, you have enough space on all four drives at all your stuff is still there. So it's just I'm telling Raid, but it seemed a little bit different. Yeah. And they're great. I've been like drawbow not to be an ambassador, but that's what I do with them in this podcast. It's brought to you. But they're awesome. And I love them. Some people don't like them, some people do. And I think for me, it's perfect. Yeah. And then I have two. So I'll have one that has my bets. This is the backup and this is the one that I work off of. And then I have my insane mind back there. I just have the G drives. Yeah. And then I have a thousand Lacy drives that I just wrote. Right. Yeah. Oh my god. Which I have to put labels on. I have like here's John Brazil, John Albany, John. But I have to label everything because then I'll just I do plugging them in and trying to figure out what that's the worst. What I do to remedy that is I put a one, a, two, a, three, a, four for all my primary drives. And my backups are b, one, b, two, b, three, before. And they're a little bit, they're not like exact replicas. Because my primary drives are like sometimes 10 terabytes, 16 terabyte drives. Yeah. And my backup drives are like two or four terabyte western digitals like cheaper drives that are smaller. And then I have a spreadsheet. So then if I ever like, if my client comes back to me from four years ago and says, hey, do you have these files? And then I can just go into the spreadsheet and then search for it. That has helped me a lot. But as the file size is getting bigger and I've got a red now like 8k and it's like fuck, you have to have a drive for every job for every job pretty much because it's actually the file size is like that big. And like the backing up of it is like, it's even worse. It's so okay. I mean, it's, I think we're at the point now where it's just like obviously the drive space keeps getting bigger. But at the same time, the k's keep getting big. And that's 4k, 8k, 52 megapixel. Like it's, it's happening at the same rate where I feel like it's crazy. It's just too much. Even these guys, like you get to the A7 R2 are like those files are so big. Oh, yeah. I'm like sometimes they have to buff her a little bit if you shoot too much. Do you do you kid? Like, yeah, oh, when you're actually shooting, yeah, it takes a minute. Like, all right, wait, click. And I felt like I would miss things when I didn't like, I don't know, yeah, even if you want to quick preview it on your computer, it's like five seconds. Right, like the A7 R man, they're so, the files are so big. They're not too big, but I just, I'd rather not shoot with Canon, so. How big are those, like the actual file size? They're the camera. I mean, it's 26 megapixel camera that one DX, but they're like bigger pixel, so I forget what the devices are. Or the megabyte on the whatever, but yeah, yeah, it's cool. I like it. Yeah, I started with Canon. Yeah. And then, I mean, Sony came through with these, which is, I like their video. They're so much better. Yeah, it's so small compact. I feel like Canon just didn't keep up quite as much. I mean, the quality is still great. Like, I don't think I think if you look side by side. Yeah, but it's like the 1DX had the video style of the, the C500 or whatever, they had like, that's the thing they don't have the logs that are right. Yeah, it's all that stuff. Yeah. It's so stupid. Yeah. But they do it on purpose, so. The weirdest thing is like the, the tax laws because they can't record over 12 minutes or 15 minutes or whatever. Like, these, I had to put in a hack on these cameras, so then they can record more than 15 minutes. Really? Yeah. Because I think it's a Europe, I'm pretty sure, and like, I looked it up. I think it used to be because they would overheat or less. Yeah, that's what I thought. Yeah. But I don't think that's the reason. I think it's like, I looked it up online and it's like European tax code is that if it's more than 12 or 15 minutes, then it's considered a film camera and film cameras are sold, like at charged at a higher tax rate. Yeah. I'm almost certain that's it because it's not, these cameras, like, they're fine. They're actually not hot at all. I don't think I've ever had some recording, but yeah. No, it's not, these don't get hot at all. 4k will. 4k will. Like, if you're shooting in 4k, I wish I could shoot these in 4k. I'd be dope. Yeah. It would be ton of five space. But yeah, it's just one of those things that you gotta match up. Let us do, you want to do quick questions? Yeah, sure. Cool. Quick quick questions. That quick answer is unless you want to do it, and then we'll wrap up the podcast. Cool. You read a lot? Yeah. What's the book that's had the biggest impact or has been most relevant to your work? Most relevant to my work. Yeah, that's, I don't know why I said, that's not the way that question goes. Yeah. What's the biggest, the book that's had the biggest impact on your life? That's like inspired you the most. I mean, I've loved the Keith Richards book, but I don't think that's inspiring. Well, is that called life? I just remember him. He's got the, it's a black and white photo on the front. I'm a photo guy. So I can't remember what that's what it's based on. No, I remember reading that book. So good. Yeah. That was really, it was a autobiography. Kind of enlightening. Yeah. And I didn't know anything about it. I had no idea either. Yeah. The Questlove book I love. I can't ever remember the name of it. Let's see the photo in your head there. Yeah. I know exactly what it looks like. I'm trying to think what it's about. What is it about the, those kind of the biographies? I really enjoy learning about music history. And I think Questlove has such a good insight on how he started and what music he was listening to and how that shaped the roots and shaped everything. And I'm so interested in that kind of stuff. What's on the sound street? Just drumming like on garbage can. Yeah. He just like didn't, he literally, well, he was a tour drummer so early. Like when he was like 12 or something like that with his parents. Like his dad was doing stuff. And he literally just has all this music knowledge. And then like the print stories are hilarious about like the payment prints going roller skating and all this kind of stuff hysterical. But I just like the music history stuff. I think that's interesting to me. I started Neil Young's book. And that's so cool that they know how Buffalo Springfield started. Like Steven still has moved to LA. They met and then Neil moved back to Canada and was like, oh my god, I think I just passed up on a big opportunity. I'm going to go back to LA. Try to find Steven stills. Couldn't find him one everywhere in the world or in LA. You know, in the 70s you didn't have anywhere to figure out where anybody was. And he was like literally so much like clubs and stuff couldn't find him. He's like, well, I guess I messed up, got in the car, started driving to Canada, sitting on a traffic and like the 101 or something. And Steven was behind him on the 101. And was like, yo, like, where have you been? Like not, got out of his car. It was like, and they were like, oh my god. And they started Buffalo Springfield. Wow. Yeah. So that's so cool to me. I love that kind of stuff. Um, so that's, that's mostly what I read. Yeah. It's kind of the same thing with the stones. I think they met on like a subway platform or train platform or something. It's just so random. Yeah. And just timing of it. Um, yeah, I love that too. That's why I like this podcast too. It's just kind of hearing how people got into something or started or how those opportunities came about because it's like, I think there's an element of like just hard work grind and just bust in your ass. And then a little bit of luck. There's just these serendipitous moments where you like just worked out so well. Well, it's funny because when I was first starting, I went out to San Francisco to shoot rock the bells. And you shot rock the bells? Yeah. It was a 2012, maybe. Dude, San Francisco way, 2012. No, I did, I, because I did rock the bells. I shot, I like, this is one of my first page shoot ever. I got flown out to rock the bells in Colorado. And I shot like nas, most deaf and taller folly. Yeah, it was like when they first came back, what was their, they had a group. Black thought. Yeah. That wasn't black. That was black something. Oh my god. It's going to come right now. Yeah. But they had like a reunion where they was the first time they came back together. And I was like in the front row, like in front of security, like shoot in that because they were wearing this t-shirt that was that clothing brand that I told you about. And wow, that was a crazy opportunity. But yeah, you shot rock the bells. So that wasn't. Yeah. No, well, another side of my favorite concert still of all time was in 2007. It was rocked the bells in on Randall's Island. And it was a Brageance machine, public enemy, Wu Tang, Cypress Hill. It was the best concert of my life. Like I still to this day. I like crowdsurfing for the first time. It was like the best ever. But where were we? Oh, so rock the bells. And I had a car, but I didn't have a place to stay. And I was like, I'm just going to go shoot it and see what happens. And I met this guy, Grady, who was my buddy. And he is Jay, he's photographer. So back then, Jay, he was nobody. He was, I don't even know if he was in the bay. He might have been in New Orleans. But anyway, he moved back to San Francisco where Grady was. And they became friends. And Grady didn't have a ride home. And I didn't have a place to stay. And we just met in the pit. And he was just like, do you want to get me a ride home? I was like, if I can crash in your couch. And then we were, then friends ever since. Wow. And that was like seven years ago now. You think about those, those kind of connections that just, and I think about that too. Like, just a one or two that I meet that they introduced me to somebody else. And like, you can see this web and you're like, holy shit. Like, yeah, if that didn't happen, my life would be totally different. Right? Right. And he basically, that's how I met, you know, Jay and I saw him do like, you know, 200 people in basement of Webster Hall. And it was awesome. And that, like Maddie, his manager, it was super cool. And that's how the, the John thinking about because Maddie put me up for going on tour with him. And like, you know, you just kind of wait and you, you keep those relationships just in case there's not just in case because I like those guys, but you just never know. Yeah. You never know where it's going to, where it's going to hit you up for anything. Yeah. And that's why I think relationship is so important. But question two, go. What drives you? What drives might it keep making stuff? Why don't keep making stuff? I'm just, I love being an artist and being a photographer and making new stuff and being creative and finding ways to be different and finding ways to just get my art out. And I've been trying to work on personal projects and other stuff and it just keeps me going not to just, I'm not doing it because I want to be a famous photographer that's, you know, selling his prints for whatever thousands, millions of dollars. I just want to do it because I love doing it. And it just, I've always been the guy that is looking at the pictures and not reading them. I'm going to talk about some stuff. Right. Even though I do read and it just visually, I'm just such a visual learner all the time and I just can't stop. I really can't stop. It kind of is weird sometimes for I'm like, you need to slow down. My fiance big, you need to stop. Like, just take a minute. You're not like, if you don't get a job in two days, you're not dying. Like everything's okay. And I'm like, I need to keep working, I need to keep doing something. I think just being creative is what drives me the most is having fun making stuff. So where do you go when you're feeling when you're feeling like you don't know if things are going to work out? I try to go to a park somewhere, like a national park, go up to your 70 or go out to the beach or go out somewhere that I just don't have cell phone service. And I think most of my doubts are social media influenced where you're like, wow, this guy's doing this, this person's doing that. This, like, why am I not doing stuff like that? But then you've got to get away from it. And that's my, my go off the Joshua tree, go out just somewhere just to get out of anywhere you're at. And it just helps me clear my head. So what's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow? Especially for people who just get in the start of it out. Don't be discouraged if you don't get working, you know, the first three, four months, slash years, you know, you just don't know, keep going. It's all going to be, if you have a passion and you just want to do it, keep with it. If you need to find a separate job or you need to whatever to to fund that passion, do it. You know, for me, I was a PA and that's how I funded living in New York City and still trying to be a photographer. I was, you know, first one there, last one to leave all the time on all these big shoots and got paid nothing, you know, 200 bucks a day. So just finding a way to fund your passion and keep with it. Two more questions here. What one thing should people read watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight? The Harry Benson documentary. It's awesome. I'm going to order my favorites. Harry Benson. It's about he's the who is the only photographer with the Beatles for the first and it is so good. He is amazing. He's got the photos of them in the bed, you know, doing the pillow fight all four of them and shooting on like a hospital with a flash on it and it's incredible. He's so amazing in the darkness. Incredible. Where's that? Netflix. Cool. Should we? Yeah. Thunderfinite. Sweet. And last question where should people find you online? Instagram. Instagram. At the end. That's it. Easy. Simple. Easy. Cool man. Thanks for doing this. Yeah man. It's awesome. All right. And that is it for this podcast. How about that? That was cool. It was cool. It's always good to hang out with family even though you didn't know they were family when you first met them. That was cool. I think we really covered a lot on this episode. If you guys want to ask a question if you want to get on the podcast again, go to groundupshow.com and there is a little section there that you it's with all my email and contact info if you want to send in a question or if you just want to say what's up. Do that. But if you keep it up with some other stuff I've been making, I can't respond to every email. I try my best but it can be overwhelming and I'm spending so much time creating this stuff that sometimes you've got to let some of those, so some of those things slip. The social media replying and all that stuff. I do my best. I read as many as I can just because I truly appreciate the encouragement the kind words. The questions all that is amazing. But at the end of the day I got to make time to create this stuff and you know, takes time. Takes time. Takes time to make this stuff. And lastly, if you want to leave a review on iTunes, that's been amazingly helpful for the past couple of weeks and it's been great to see what you guys think of the show. So go to iTunes, leave a rating, leave a review. Every single one helps. Thanks so much and I'll see you next week.
