# How a fresh start changed our life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qh3i6OwAsMw
Go to https://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code MATTDAVELLA. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video 🤘

🗣️ Things I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links, all are genuine recommendations)
How to Change by Katy Milkman: https://amzn.to/3PGhrTT

🤘 Where I get my music...
Artlist: https://bit.ly/matt-loves-artlist

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 CREDITS
Directed by Matt D'Avella
Edited by Matt D'Avella & Spencer Torok

🎥 INTERVIEW CREDITS
DP... Chris Newhard
B Cam... Dan Mendenhall
Gaffer... James Powers
Grip... Jon Barden
Sound Op... Joey DeFeo
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, 
**Date:** 2022-07-27

## Transcript
 Have you ever wanted to just start over to hit control all the lead on your life and begin again with a fresh sleep? Let's rewind and try again. It often feels impossible to make any sort of change in our lives, even though we daydream about it constantly, like doing better in school, finally getting in shape, or handing in our resignation letter to our boss. I quit. Yeah, you can't quit because you work for yourself. Well, then maybe you should quit. Yeah, it doesn't work like that. Yeah, you're not getting paid for over time. A couple of years ago, my wife and I felt like we were on a ride that we couldn't get off of. So we hit the reset button, started over, and it changed our lives for the better. And the science behind behavior change says that it might work for you as well. This video is sponsored by Squarespace, more on them in a minute. So when it comes to the science behind motivating yourself and taking action, it turns out that it actually has less to do with the how, and more to do with the when. The first sort of fact might be my favorite topic I've ever studied. That's Katie Milkman. Behavioral scientists and author of How to Change. The science of getting from where you are to where you want to be. I sat with Katie to talk with her about how to change. Some of the most fascinating research that she's done is on understanding the importance that timing plays on behavior change. What the first start effect is, it's our tendency to be extremely optimistic about our capacity to change at moments in our lives that feel like fresh starts or new beginnings. Run your finger along your calendar and you can spot fresh starts at every turn. Both big and small. And we can use these as launching off points to make changes in our lives. So think about the first day of a new year and new year's resolutions as the most famous manifestation of the fresh start effect. But it turns out that's just one example. Every Monday we're a little bit more optimistic and more likely to pursue our goals than we are on other days of the week. We see the same pattern when we look at the start of a new semester for students when we look at falling birthdays which feel like fresh starts in our lives when people move to a new community or a new job. They tend to have similar fresh start feelings. And what happens is we feel like at the beginning of these new cycles in our lives. We've turned the page on who we are. And we can say, you know, that was the old me last year who didn't quit smoking and get my finances in shape. And yeah, okay, that didn't work out for the old me. But this is the new me and the new me is going to be different. Making changes in your life isn't just difficult. It can be terrifying. Just a couple years ago towards the end of 2020. That's something that my wife, Nat and I faced first hand. Like everyone else, we were feeling burnt out from the pandemic. For most of the year, we struggle to maintain healthy habits. Our fitness routines fell off the map and we ordered take out three days a week. As much as we tried to turn things around, we felt stuck. We were trapped in this endless cycle of eating crap food, barely moving, and feeling creatively unfulfilled. We were desperately seeking a change. What did you do? I took my job today. We did it. So proud of you. How am I sharing my dad? Nat had just quit her full-time job. And so for the first time in our relationship, we had the option to live anywhere we wanted. After talking it over, we asked a crazy question. What if we lived between both Australia and America? This question scared the hell out of us. Would we be able to afford it? I would we juggle visas? What if we were making a huge mistake? There was only one way to find out. We sold 90% of our stuff, packed up all our things, and did the lease on our apartment, and decided to go for it. This was probably one of the most uncertain and spontaneous decisions of our lives. But something interesting happened as the wheels of our plane lifted off the runway at LAX. It was quickly as the fear and panic rose in us. It began to fade into the background. And it gave way to a rising sense of optimism and excitement. It felt like anything was possible. That was the fresh start effect in action. The question is, would it be enough for us to get out of our ride? Or would it just be another fleeting chance at a reset that would find us tumbling back into our old habits? I mean, New Year's resolutions don't have the best track record. New Year's comes with holiday cheer and plenty of resolutions to do better next year. New Year's just would not be the same without making resolutions. Everybody's talking about making New Year's resolutions today, but how do you keep them going once psychology professor says setting resolutions at a time like this make it overwhelming? A study by scrambling university found that only 8% of us will actually keep those New Year's resolutions. I think a lot of people look at New Year's pretty pessimistically. I know that you've heard this study probably too many times. With the fact that 80% of New Year's resolutions fail within the first month or two. Does this prove that the New Year's resolution is actually not something that's worth pursuing? I think that's really important data to keep in mind. But I also, the point there really is that change is almost always hard, whether you start it New Year's or any other time. There's no other time of year I've heard that has a better success rate. The exciting thing about New Year's is that 40% of Americans are setting goals which they're not doing on February 15th or June 17th. There aren't other days that motivate that level of ambition and pursuit of change. So to me it's exciting to see all those attempts because you can't succeed if you don't attempt it and you're going to see a high failure rate whenever. People attempt change? Since change is really freaking hard, maybe we should give ourselves a break and look at fresh starts like New Year's more optimistically. After all, if you flip the stats around, it's actually pretty impressive that 20% of people stick with their resolutions. If we don't try, we can't succeed. And so whether it's New Year's, your birthday, move to New City, whatever it is that motivates you. Okay, you may not succeed this time, but you're trying, and that's going to bring you closer to a finish line. So when Nat and I found ourselves in a rut at the end of 2020, a fresh start was exactly what we needed. And it played out a little bit differently for the both of us. For me, it was a resounding success. The strategy to use that big move as momentum to rebuild my healthy habits began almost immediately. From day one, I started working out consistently, and one week of workouts turned into two. Then a month turned into three. I started to eat better than I had all year, and I started to pick the pieces of my life back up again. The fresh start helped me to stick habits, I'd let slip from most of the year, and it was largely because of this mental shift that I had moving to a new city and starting over. Natalie, not so much. While she was definitely a lot happier with the move in general, it didn't really give her that same kick of motivation that it did for me. But the interesting thing about living between two countries is that you've got a chance for a fresh start basically every six months. And on our trip back to the US, Nat found the spring in her step to totally transform her fitness and nutrition habits. Like I'd honestly never seen her take fitness this seriously in her life, it was really impressive. And she definitely credits the fresh start effect with being the initial wave that carried those behaviors into automatic habits. And here's the good news about the fresh start effect. You don't have to sell all of your stuff, become a digital nomad, and move halfway around the world to take advantage of it. As Katie explains, What we've shown about the way we can use it though, is that if we encourage someone to begin pursuing a goal and we highlight a fresh start date on the calendar in front of them, they're more excited and more likely to say yes on those fresh start dates. So we, you know, circle the first day of spring and label it as such and say, Do you want to start pursuing a goal choose a date and people pick the first day of spring when it's labeled as the first day of spring, but not when it's labeled as the third Thursday in March. We can also get people to save more for retirement when we invite them to start saving after an upcoming birthday or after the start of spring, rather than at an arbitrary date that's at the same point in the future. That isn't labeled as a fresh start. So when we highlight fresh starts to people, that creates this extra excitement about, Oh, this is a perfect moment to begin. So while fresh starts can be a really effective tool to get us motivated if we're not careful, they can actually sabotage our progress. More on that in a minute cliffhanger, but first a quick word for my sponsor, Squarespace. I've used Squarespace to build websites for nearly a decade because they make it so easy to bring my ideas to life. So let's say that you sell all your stuff, move into a van down by the river, and decide to start a blog to document your brand new life. Squarespace is your one-stop shop for building your new internet home. Start off by getting a snazzy new domain name, not another vanlife or dot com. Next, choose a template that fits the vibe of your blog. Bingo, that's perfect. And after that, you can drop in your logo, add an about page to tell your story, and publish your very first blog post. And people will be taken back by how refreshing your vanlife story is. Honestly, I think not would actually love doing the vanlife thing, she definitely will. With Squarespace, you can scale your business with detailed analytics, scheduled posts, and e-commerce stores. It's never been easier to build a website and to show the world how to make the most out of a fresh start. Visit squarespace.com today for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com slash Matt Diavella to save 10% of your first purchase of a website or domain. When you support Squarespace by using the link in the description below this video, you're also supporting this channel. So thanks for considering. So we've talked all about how fresh starts can help give us the right mindset that we need to make significant changes in our lives. But there are times when fresh starts can actually undo our progress and make it more likely that will fail. While resets are helpful when we're in a slump as Katie Milkman told me, they're the last thing that we need when we're on a roll. My number one piece of advice based on the research on this topic is to try not to sort of wipe the slate clean. If things are going well for you, if you have been tracking your performance in some way, whether it's your a sales person and you're trying to improve your sales, or you're used to a lingo and you track how many days you've been practicing your Spanish or you're going to the gym and you've been paying attention to like how successfully you've been doing that. What you want to avoid is allowing a fresh start to come along where you start tracking and you're like, oh, it's a new year. Let me get a new calendar up. We're going to start tracking again or you know, it's a new quarter. Let me let me restart my counter. So if you've been consistently exercising every day for a month and you've checked off every little box on your habit tracker for 30 days straight, when the next month comes along, instead of starting over from the very beginning, you might want to pin up another calendar next to your previous habit tracker. This will help you continue to build upon the momentum you've created and enter into a mindset where you see yourself as someone capable of maintaining this change. Which is something that Nat and I will have to keep in mind as we split our time between two countries and balance all the other fresh starts in our lives. If things are going well, how do we keep that momentum going? And if we're in a slump, how do we use the resets to our advantage? Because no matter how good we are at sticking to change, we're always going to slip up. What I do want to say though is the first start is clearly not enough and that's what that data also points to. We can't just count on fresh starts to repel us. One moment of motivation doesn't get us to the finish line when it comes to change. Which is why I wrote a book that has many more chapters than one of the fresh start, right? We need a lot of tools to figure out how do I get from from setting a goal to achieving it. And that's sort of what the science I do is all about is it's just that fresh starts are good moments to start. And so I think they're exciting for that reason. So whether you want to make a change in your career, run a marathon or ditch your apartment to live in a van. There are always fresh starts around the corner waiting for you to hit the reset button on your life. And you know what? I feel like finishing a YouTube video is kind of like a fresh start, right? Okay, that might be a bit of a stretch. I definitely recommend you check out Katie's book how to change. It's phenomenal. I just finished it up a couple months ago. Definitely recommend you check it out for yourself. Until next time. Bye guys.
