# Ground Up 054 - Going Viral w/ Hope Leigh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=REIpn7pmk14
Get my podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

Hope Leigh (brand strategist & content creator) is on the podcast today to talk about content, preparing for virality (it’s kinda like preparing for a good earthquake), and the exact kind of consistency that’s going to help you grow your audience. Her mantra: capture joy & build community.

More from Hope: http://hopeleigh.com

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, 
**Date:** 2018-04-11

## Transcript
 The point of the algorithm is not to like punish or hurt people. It's not actually a bad thing. It's like originally when Facebook was just you and like 20 of your friends in college, you wanted to see everything they were posting. But now you have 4,000 friends and if you had to see every meal and baby photo and bad song lyric and throwback Thursday posted by all 4,000 people, you would stop using these platforms. And so that's why it's so important to create content that is worth engaging with that asks a question that creates a conversation. Welcome back to the ground up show. Today I'm sitting down with Hope Lee to talk about creating content, how to prepare for virology. It's kind of like preparing for a good earthquake and the exact kind of consistency that's going to help you grow an audience. Her mantra is pretty simple. Capture joy and build community. Hope stands with a few viral campaigns in her day that we cover on this podcast that's super interesting. These days she's a branding strategist and content creator that works with dozens of brands to make their shit look dope online. That's kind of like my mantra. Her mantra is a little bit more beautiful than mine. Anyway, before we get into the conversation, a couple things. Do you like this podcast? Have you gotten some value out of it? There are a few ways that you can help. I really want to try to keep this thing advertisement free. So a little bit of love from you goes a really long way. You can share your favorite episode with a family member, a friend or a fellow creative. Maybe an episode that you have gotten the most value out of the word of mouth is my favorite way to get the word out there naturally. Of course, you can leave a review on iTunes. These reviews really help to promote the visibility of the show. So say something nice online. That helps. And the last thing, tell somebody that you care about them. That's not going to help the podcast necessarily. I just think it would help you and it's just going to make you feel better. You know, somebody that you haven't told in a while, tell them you love them. Tell them you care and tell them that you're there for them. I think that would just, I don't know. Maybe it's a little corny, but maybe we can make the world a better place. Alright. We answer a question on this podcast. A great question from a young college student, a young creator. It's really thoughtful and I've been getting these questions in since the beginning of the year and I love including them and incorporating them on the podcast when it makes sense. So if you have a question that's you're dying to know that you're etching to get soft, my guess and I can help you out. Record a video, keep it under two minutes and send it to hello at matdivella.com. If it fits with the show, I'll put it on. We'll talk about it. We'll get to the bottom of it. I found this to be really insightful and really helpful because as much as, I like to think we can cover all the territory we can in an hour, hour and a half. It's really great to hear from you guys and to hear specifically about the things that you're struggling with. So yeah, that's that. And that's the intro. What do you say we get into this week's podcast? This is hopefully. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name's Matty Avella and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. Yeah, you want to do a podcast? Yeah. Excited. Fired up. All right. You do a little bit of like radio stuff and you've worked with the NPR bit. Yeah, yeah. I've been with them for years. I just never, I don't usually do it where I'm also on camera anymore. That's my only nerve-wracking part. Yeah. Well, the good thing is that most people don't watch. Oh, great. So that's been growing. I mean, as I've been doing YouTube more, there's been more people watching over there, but still it's like a majority of the people listen and I feel like the video stuff is really just for creating these short little. Cool soundbites that you can share on. You should do one all make it episode. People will start. That's actually an amazing idea. But just put the table like right here. Um, I don't know if I don't know. I don't know. That might happen. It depends who my guest is on that day. You know? I mean, maybe it could be like a nudist. Maybe that could be the thing. Or like June, Mama June, from Honeybubba. Is she, is that a thing that she does on that? No, I just, you know, she recently lost a lot of weight. She might be down to like really just rock her new bod on YouTube. Embrace it. That's actually a great idea. Maybe it's not. I don't know. We could brainstorm about those ideas a little bit later on. But first, I want to talk a little bit about the work that you do right now. I'm going to give you a proper intro. But if you just tell me a little bit in your own words, what it is that your work looks like these days. So I made a transition a couple of years ago into like professional social media, which is a lot of strategy for big companies. Sometimes just coming out with like, you know, really what their content is going to look like in an arch over time, or what different campaigns to build community are going to look like. And then for some people, we're literally building the content, shooting it. Yeah, pretty much that. So sometimes it's photo video stuff, sometimes it's like spreadsheet life. Right. It seems like there's like a balance between the strategy in terms of like how you're executing it, which is really the most important part, and they actually the content creation. Yeah, like, what does it mean? So my girlfriend's actually, she is a strategist. I think I know what she does. She's a strategist, but it's like very specific in terms of like she just a strategy and figures out like, say, if you have a show of Mr. Robot, how is that going to be perceived by viewers, how do you market that and pitch that? So then viewers really understand. They see out of home, billboard, or they see a commercial, and they get the essence in the fuel for it. Like the strategies would drive everything on that process. How does it, as like a branding strategist in that role? How does that look in terms of strategy? Yeah. So I usually have people narrow down like, what are the three or five either messages or products, or like things that you're trying to push or get across? Or if it's a personal brand as a person, like what are the five things that matter to you most that are worth sharing online? And then do like a fairly even billed out in a calendar for the year. Like how often are you going to talk about you wanting the rock to be on your show? Where's how often are you going to talk about minimalism, et cetera? And then from there figuring out like what ways does your current audience like take in media the best? Do they want it to feel more editorial? Is it quick? Like how old or younger they kind of usually is a good feel for like how much content they're willing to take in? How brief they want it to be? And if they're men or women, like every different generation is still kind of taking in content different. So then that kind of helps you figure out what you're talking about, what the format is. And then after that it's just like it sounds boring, but it's a lot of AB testing to figure out what your community responds to, and how to get them to engage as much as possible, so that you're building a conversation and you're not just talking at people, which is what I feel like a lot of companies are getting stuck doing right now. Yeah, and a lot of like independent entrepreneurs and Instagramers, hey guys, what's going on? Like it seems like a lot of the content is very much the same, it's like yeah. This is what I'm doing right now, and it's like, I feel like what you're trying to do here is take a step back, and instead of like just kind of throwing stuff at a wall and just creating for creating sake, because you just need to make content and fill up the pages, it's to actually get a bird's eye view and say, all right, well where do you want to take this thing? What direction do you get? Yeah, and it is really different if you're like a first person or a third person type brand, like are you constantly filming yourself and speaking from an eye, or is it a wee and are you like sourcing content from your listeners or from your followers, and engaging it in that way? And I mean, I deal with both of those kind of clients, but sometimes it's stripping people down and making them more focused. Like if you're someone who does a ton of different things, but you're like, I have a client who's a yoga model and it's like, dude, you're a cute redhead and people just want to see you do yoga, and sports for every day, like don't post pictures of your dog, like no one wants to be a breakfast kind of thing, or there's people that are only showing one thing, and it's like, whoa, you're actually an amazing father, and you're actually like, you have this really cool garden that you tend to, or whatever it is, people actually would love to see that side of your life, and maybe show more sides of it. So sometimes it's opening people up to realizing that different aspects of their life are really appealing and engaging for people, or sometimes it's like stripping them down to, here's one thing people love to hear from you. Sure. Maybe you have a personal account where you share stuff with your family. Right, sometimes you might want to just split it up and keep things clean. And I think that part of being a creator is always experimenting, and it's always maybe trying and tweaking different things, and oftentimes you're going to want to say, maybe that redheaded yoga instructor, all of a sudden, is like, you know what, I just, I don't want to just do this, maybe I want to branch out and start reviewing video games. There's something like that, and it's like, all right, well, how does that play into this? Is that something separate? It's everywhere yoga clothes when you do that. Exactly. I think we're going to come up with some amazing ideas on this episode. That right there is like a million dollar idea. No, and she is great. She's someone who is really multifaceted, but it's like cool. But this platform is what's, you know, maybe Instagram visually and health and fitness, like this is what that is for you. Right. Maybe you grow in other ways on other platforms. Yeah, it seems like there's like an analytical side to what you do, and like the strategy side and very thoughtful, but then obviously also the creative side, because that we first got interested in and in the creative side. Sure. When did that first start to take hold? I started doing photography around like 14, 15. I was like a super like an indie scene chick in North Carolina, like a real raging rock scene there. And yeah, I just started shooting like live shows and things like that. And in high school in college, I shot a lot of people's headshots, like just to make money on the side. And then I started like once I got into video at the end of college, I started like just kind of capturing my life. And I realized, I don't have a lot of videos of me as a kid. I haven't seen any actually that I can recollect. And I love capturing like these little montage memories of my life and looking back on them. So I started just doing it that way for myself. When I had something very accidentally goes super viral. And then people naturally are going to be like, can you do that twice? I was like like, and try to figure out how I did it. Right. And then since then, it's been like around 75 brands. I've worked with in the last two and a half years, trying to learn how to recreate the magic of morality or intentionally. How to grow things in a mass way online. Sure. Those are definitely two very different challenges there. Let's talk about specifically about that viral event that happened, which was pretty crazy. Was this 2015? Yeah, it was March. Three years ago, this month, which sounds crazy. It feels like it was a lifetime ago, but it also feels like it was just yesterday. Yeah. And what happened? I was a part of like a secret group on Facebook, like a private group of girls. Someone saw that a man was being made fun of on Reddit. Like, and he didn't know it. His name wasn't tagged or anything. It was just a picture of a guy dancing. He looks really happy. And then a picture of him looking really down next to it. And the caption was, saw this specimen trying to dance. He stopped when we started laughing at him. And, you know, he's like a really heavy set guy. But just has like the most joyful look on his face. And then you see this like really painful. Just like shame in the second image. So a few people were like, what do you do? Like, do you find the guys who put it up and punish them? Or like, do you find the guy in the picture? Like, I don't know. Send him flowers or something. And I was like, I would dance with that guy. Like, he's having a blast. So we created an invitation that I designed really quickly. So quickly on an app that I misspelled a lot of words. Looking back on, like to have something go viral and be like, She spelt sincerely wrong. I still kind of have to look that way. But there's so many keys on our app. There's somewhere in the picture. I'm never going to get it. So yeah, we sent it out. And I was literally just like laying on the couch watching Grey's Anatomy. And all of a sudden it exploded. Like, I did text it to a lot of like celebrities and friends. I know have a big following being like, we want to find this guy in this picture. You know. And at that point we didn't really know what we wanted to do. We figured he was in America. He was not. But we were like, oh, it's probably a couple of new books. We'll find him somewhere and fly me LA and just go to a bar and dance. I don't know. Yeah. But really quickly, like, this city of LA was like, we'll pay for it. And the call seems like, we'll host a party for 80,000 people. And for I was like, all sing. And Bobby's like, I'll DJ. And it's like, Bobby. And, uh, like, cool thing. Said she'd sing. She didn't respond to emails after that. But she definitely said she would. Died of aunties was like, I'll do a dance. Monica Lewinsky wanted to come speak and did. Um, Andrew W. K. Like, all these, all these big people that you wouldn't even think have any relation to the world of like body positivity or anti bullying, especially anti bullying in the world of like grown adult men, because that's not even a thing. Like no one talks about like adult men being bullied. Yeah. Um, so everyone just came out of the woodworks. Because I think it was just like a human story. And we were just like the viral story one week after the white dress, blue dress thing. Was that the, yeah. Yeah. It stresses it. Yeah. That was like one week before us. So we were running like, you can kind of running topic the next week. Right. You could put a timestamp on it. Okay. And I think, um, I think I do remember hearing about this and seeing it. Yeah. Because definitely was a heavy read at the time. Yeah. And it was the top trending topic on Facebook and Twitter in the world for two days. We ended up like, you know, was one of, um, like, the today shows like top 10 stories of the year and Sean, the man who we ended up finding in the photo, spoke at Twitter for being like, that was, that Twitter's like annual gala for like this was how the internet could be used for good. And this was our number one like thing of the year. It got like really crazy attention fast, um, in a way you could never imagine. Like I woke up the next day and like good morning America and Ellen were both like, So what are you doing this afternoon? So what? Just weird. And sure. And what do you do in that moment? Like I imagine there's a bit of panic. There's a bit of, I mean, excitement. There's also like, what the hell do I do now? Yeah. I just, I dumped into a lot of action. Luckily when it's internet, it's like, say a million people, look at something you did. It's hard to imagine when a million people look like, you know what I mean? So it doesn't, I don't know if you really understand how big it is in that moment. But immediately we were also like, our names weren't on anything. And no one really knew who the people were looking for this guy. So luckily my dad's in business and he immediately was like, get the domain. Like copyright the hashtag, like get the email going to like filter everything that's coming in. And the first five days were just, I literally didn't sleep or eat for like five days. You can really run on adrenaline and crash really hard. Like a week later. But yeah, that first week was so, so hectic. I don't wish unexpected virality on anyone for that reason. It's like, you have to just call out for work. I'm sorry. I got 15,000 emails this morning. And I don't know what to do. Right. And there is an element of preparedness that you would like to have heading into something like that. For sure. We were shooting a music video for me because I was still like a singer songwriter at the time. That weekend with a song that I had like already written about being nice to people. And so that kind of worked in the sense that it was like, well, we already have a video team coming this weekend. We already have like 50 girls showing up to my house. We already have, you know, so like some stuff was luckily very coincidentally in place. Yeah, we could have never expected it to go like that. And once we were able to set a date, a delayed date, the party ended up being like two months after the campaign. That gave us more time. Just be like, cool. We have 60 days or 90 days to like plan this out and plan this giant party for this man that ended up being insane. Through the opening pitch at a Dodgers game. We had a private picnic lunch like in the center of an NFL stadium. It was like it was so much more than the party. It was we went to the Rockefeller Center and like you dance on stage with Megan Trainer and was interviewed by like Matt Lauer and Carson Daley. Like it was a very big whirlwind. And it just took a lot of planning in that moment. But I didn't get to do as much of the creative as I would have wanted to looking back in how I captured it. Because I just didn't have time. And that's where I think now instead of people wanting to just stumble into something blowing up. Like I made something cool. It's like I want to get millions of views. It's like to have a really intentional plan for like how you're building buzz and how you're building community around it. And then what you do with it afterwards. Like we accidentally fund raised a ton of money. We started to go fund me to get $500 and like 75,000 came in. And it was like, well we're not a nonprofit yet. What do we do? You know, like it's you don't know what to do in those situations. And I imagine that a lot of people that get caught in virality like once it's out of the new cycle that they really struggle with like picking up the pieces afterwards. Yeah. And I just I do want to talk about like what you would do differently. But a lot of times it's like you're right that you can never expect it. And like you know, like obviously it's like yeah, you want to prepare for it. But a lot of times the people that do go viral are those that don't have an audience that are maybe just getting started out. Maybe been doing it for a couple years, but like there's not much consistency there. And all of a sudden one thing just takes off. Or it's a 12 year old on vine. And it's like, well, how the hell are they prepared to be able to. I mean, maybe they even they shouldn't like get too caught up with it and to swept up with the moment. Like yeah, I feel like you're right when you say like I hope certain people like or I don't really wish an unexpected virality to happen to anybody. Especially if like the kid or somebody that's just like so unprepared. This trying to just figure out what the hell is going on in their life and their own small circle over the world. And now all of a sudden they're on this massive platform. And like we were asking for it, we didn't expect it at this level, but we were looking for it. But this guy like didn't even have social media. Like he got a million phone calls in next morning. Now he's like one of my dearest friends. We like visit him in London all the time. He comes here quite a lot, but that's right. Lips is in England. Absolutely the nicest man on earth. Also, he could have better pedophile. Could have been a real creep. We didn't know. He could have went really bad. Could have been really bad, you know. He could have just shown up. But we could have been like, wow, you're a meth head. This is weird. The world wants to throw you a party. Yeah. Luckily he's hands down the nicest human on the face of the planet. It could not have happened to a better person. But yeah, he didn't ask for it. What's he actually bullied? Like, did he see that? Or that was one of those things that was kind of going on behind him. That he didn't really know about it. I mean, he knew he was being laughed at. Whenever we asked him about that night too, he's like, ah, we're drinking quite a bit as bouncing quite a lot. He's watching football or soccer. And so they, it's like that moment in the impact him at this insane level that like, the photograph ended up having the ability to like impact the world longer term. But yeah, luckily he was down. He was like, as long as this is for good cause. And me and him made an agreement very early on that no one would make a penny. So that was the other thing too. People think like, oh, you're on TV all the time. We can all this money. You're selling it. We're like, every penny went to charity. We all lost money because we took time off work. You know? Yeah. But yeah, he was great. Yeah, it seemed like there was a, there was a positive intention behind the whole thing. Yeah. And it wasn't, it wasn't just trying to get attention for attention. And I think that's what's important too is because a lot of people are trying to get attention. And are yelling for it and spamming people and tagging 100 of your friends on Facebook. And it's like, that's not the way you do it. Yeah. Like, well, hey, maybe it's tacky for him. Oh my god, it's so tacky. And like, this is not going to work. Dude, it is, I don't think it's ever worked in the history of the world. Maybe twice. They saw two people do it. And all of a sudden it took off like a chain email. Yeah. That was forwarded from your grandma. But like other than that, I feel like you just got to put out really great work. That's meaningful that other people are going to care about. Yeah. So why would somebody want to share this? Yeah. But when I started, nothing I ever did, like any of my most successful campaigns or accounts. None of those things were about getting numbers. Ever. Um, occasionally now when I work with companies, they really need to see numbers. Because of the, like, weird corporate chain of people that want to see the reports. That them sure they don't look at. Um, but like, need to be really designed beautifully. Um, but everything was like, oh, you're, you know, was me just wanting to, like, help people capture what they were doing better. I had, I learned that I had a weird knack for making things look cool online, which is a weird thing to say you do professionally. But the elevator pitch of what we do is that if you're doing something cool in real life and you don't know how to make yourself look cool online. You end up like hurting your product or hurting your brand or your band or your company or non profit. Whatever it is, putting up really low quality stuff. You know, when you're making really good quality stuff in real life, just because digital, you know, isn't your thing. It ends up hurting you and so I was like, I somehow I make my life look way cooler online than it is real life. So maybe that's a skill I could share with other people. And it was less about numbers and more like, I want people to authentically see how great your work is online because I think it's great in real life. And that's why we only work with companies who we believe in in real life. And I think a lot of times we there's like a negative at least these days when it when a word gets used so much that it loses its meaning. People tend to be like, I don't like that word. I don't use that word like branding. It's like, I don't like that word. But it's like, it's what it represents and what it stands for. And like, yeah, okay, don't use the word branding, whatever. I don't care what I vocabulary you use, but like how you present yourself on the internet online. How you present your business. It's so important. It's like, and some people may, that's a kind of a most postmodern approach. Like, I don't want to put labels or do anything like that. But if I call myself the minimalist filmmaker, well, that means something. If people have like, even if I call myself a filmmaker, there's like an image to your head versus a videographer or whatever. Like, I feel like you have to be very intentional about those decisions you make and you're putting yourself on the internet. It's how 90% of people you work with, or even like socialize with, are going to first be introduced to you at this point. And for a lot of companies, that's like the only interaction I'll have with you. Like, if you're selling t-shirts now, you know, a handful of people come into your store, but the majority of them are going to buy it online. Like, that sometimes is like your only path of communication with whether it's like fans followers, you know, whoever, whatever your audience is at your trying to build or the market is at your trying to sell to. Or just the cool thing is also just campaigns that aren't even, it's not about money and it's not about telling something. It's like, I'm really trying to push a message. And I've done, I did that branding strategy recently for like a new brand campaign that Mark Zuckerberg is backing, which Lord knows why they needed me as their strategist. I was like, you're seeing pretty good at making things go big yourself. But sometimes just these campaigns that people are able to fund where they're like, to sell anything, we literally are just trying to make a change. And whether that's something as obvious as like a Black Lives Matter type thing. You know what I mean? We're just trying to spread a message and change a perception. And we're using the internet as they be able to do that. Yeah, I think that should be everybody's intention when they're trying to put something out. It shouldn't be bottom line, make money, make dollar, whatever it is. If you write a book, it shouldn't be. You're trying to be on the New York Times bestseller list and sell 10,000 copies in the first day. It should be. I want people to read this book because I think it will help them and it will change their lives. Because people can sense when you're being anxious and you're being, you're just trying to, they know what your intentions are. Yeah. And a lot of times people will seek out these like titles or status markers that like really don't matter. So it's like, you know, you can, you can trend for a day in like a really small category of iTunes, for example. You know? Like if you were like, yeah, I'm the number one podcast for minimalist men in California. A freshman in the category. Yeah, but then like then you're integrated by it was like a number one podcaster. You know what I mean? Like something that's like these really vague award winning. Yeah. I mean, I use that just because like you said it's, it helps to add validity. Yeah. But at the same time when anybody can say it, does it actually mean anything? Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. I want pop out one of the year for the Ellen Music Awards. But like it's not the Grammys. Yeah. It does a cool on the wall. Yeah. But like it's the Ellen Music Awards. Right. It's the Grammys. You know? Or like I've done a TEDx talk. You know? But it's not a TED talk. Ted. Yeah. Yeah. Like the people that say, I did a TED talk. Did you do a TED talk? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My boyfriend, not you, Matt. Yeah. But at this writer's conference and they always used to tease each other. It would be like, Emmy award winning so it's a guy in the back of it. You got a daytime Emmy. It was like a children's show. Right. I think this is a child. In that same vein. It's a little bit different. But a lot of people will say, I'm aspiring. And I think from the other side. Yeah. Don't say you're aspiring. If you're a filmmaker, just say you're a film. Like it doesn't take much to be a filmmaker and a call yourself a filmmaker. And you're never going to know in that line, Blurs. Because there's going to be this really weird, you know, year where you go from aspiring to professional or from amateur to a professional. Yeah. And you might as well just call yourself a filmmaker and then fake it until you make it. Or be selective. If you see like a profile account that's, you know, like I'm a, I'm a videographer, photographer, a motivator, muse, chef, barista, you know, public figure. Sometimes like just stick with, you know, stick with something long enough to be good at it and do a million other things. Like I technically have been a professional photographer or videographer of the last 10, 15 years and very much so in the last two, two, three years. But I don't lead with like that as my title or added to this long list. You know, like lead with the thing that you're representing that you do the strongest. Yeah. But I'll continue to build up a million other skill sets in the background. I do that stuff with documentaries that I make and when you put the credits. And I've seen stuff. You know, you've seen the independent docs and the independent films, where the director is the producer is the editor is the colorist. And like they give themselves credit for everything. And I'm like, you're making this look not very good for yourself. So if it was like a film by Matt Diavellum and that's it. Or I usually just do directed produced and then that's it. Yeah. For a very specific reason and like I don't if I color it, I won't do colorist, I won't do editor, edited by. Because you're, you, it's also about what you want, how you want people to perceive you and the kind of work that you want to do in the future. Yeah. I want to continue directing film. So I want people to know that I directed this. But then it's just going to water it down if you add every other title to it. It's also going to make you seem kind of like, you go testicle, right? Like, I think it just makes it seem like, like you don't have any friends. Right. Like you can get a couple people to help out. Yeah. Yeah. From, so like say a individual is starting to put stuff out online. Yeah. We're talking about like how to actually position ourselves and talk about ourselves online. How important is it in the beginning? Because when you're first. Starting, right? That's probably the point where you're going to get the most friction where you're not going to be able to actually keep going. How much time should should people be spending on the bio, the photos and all this stuff versus the actual content. That's going to be a part of their rise. I think you're actual like profile, you know, your mini description, whatever that you're putting out on social. Like that can change in a ball over time. I'd say always like keep it simple. More than anything else and focus on the content. And know that like it's better to put out consistent, good content than like every day mediocre content or like once in a blue moon. Fantastic content. If that makes sense. Do 100%. And I've been talking about this a lot because like a lot of people are trying to push creators to make and release every day and that's like the vlogging went viral and it's everybody's vlogging. But when you have five to 10,000 people vlogging their day to day, go into the grocery store. It's not going to be that interesting and the content's not going to be that engaging. For sure. And we like, and the algorithms change all the time. So I'll always start with new clients that are like, yeah, we should be posting, you know, three to five times a day. And I was like, maybe like on Twitter in 2010. Like, you know, and also know that every platform is really different. So like the way that you're, you know, Twitter is a place to like create and join conversations. Like start and join conversations in my mind. And a lot of companies use Twitter like, oh, because we're on Facebook and Instagram. We just want to push stuff out. And but they're like not interacting with anyone else on there. But like that's a platform you can maybe post on multiple times a day. But know that like you need to keep track with how these algorithms are shifting. Because maybe it was okay to post a few more times a day. But over time like people follow way more people. And I think that that's a good one. Then you get too much crap in your feed and in your timeline. That's why they created these algorithms. And I get it at sex. I follow a lot of beauty bloggers because I love them. But they're always like, go comment on my 10 of my recent posts. So you can see more of my things in the algorithm. And it's this weird like begging for it. And I'm like, no, but that's the point of the algorithm is not to like punish or hurt people. It's not actually a bad thing. It's like originally when Facebook was just you and like 20 of your friends in college. You wanted to see everything they were posting. But now you have 4,000 friends. And if you had to see every meal and baby photo and bad song lyric and throwback Thursday posted by all 4,000 people, you would stop using these platforms. So it tracks your behavior. If you like your mom's stuff, you're going to keep seeing your mom's stuff. And if you don't, you won't. And so you're going to continue being seen by the people who want to see you, by the people who engage in your stuff. And that means if you're, if you're someone who's taking in stuff all the time, like interact with the people you like. If you like Matt Dio's stuff, like comment on it. You know what I mean? And if you don't, like you're going to start seeing less of it. And I think that that's a really reasonable thing to have happened. And so that's why it's so important to create content that is worth engaging with, that asks a question that creates a conversation. And that you're interacting back with people. You know, like when they're asking you a question or commenting on your stuff, you go look at their stuff and you like interact with like minded people in your community. And that's I think the most authentic way to build any brand online right now. Yeah, and I think that's why it's important to always make sure you're putting out quality. Yeah. So if you put out one quality piece once a month, but then every other post is shit, that one post is probably not going to get seen by the many people. But if you're putting out one quality post every week versus every single day, putting shit out, it's probably going to reflect better. Your audience is going to be like, this is a thing too. Like whenever I'm trying to create a YouTube video, I'm like, I really want to make this be really good. Because I want my audience to know that every time they watch a video, it's got a certain standard of quality. I'm not just going to put up like me going into the grocery store. Yeah. And you'd be very thoughtful and intentional about it. And that's something that I think more and more people are going to start realizing as, obviously, like we've been talking about how just saturated media is and social media is in general. It's far past that now. But it seems like, I don't know. It seems like I see a couple people now that are being really thoughtful, really intentional that doing it really well. But then you have a lot of the people that are just coming up and starting out that are just doing the vlogs and doing the everyday content. And these platforms adjust for that. You know what I mean? So it's like Instagram stories is something that's like, you know, maybe it's a competition with Snapchat. But it's like cool. Here's a way where you can post like all the little things all the time. That aren't going to like suck up people's made feeds. If they're not into that from you. Yeah. And like utilizing those things. Yeah. That's a great point. We were talking a little bit about the viability and what you would do differently today. And you actually had an experience in a chance to do it a little bit differently with your friend Terrence. Yeah. Yeah. So maybe that's a good context. Because going into this experience, you kind of knew someone was by the pop-off. Yeah. We better be prepared for this. Exactly. So maybe just give background. So we had no idea in 2015 that dancing man was going to happen. You know, that was going to blow up and become viral. And truly like literally viral. But we expected it. Recently I have a good friend. I've been friends with her about 10 years through music. He has lived with me on and off throughout the years. Audition for the voice. And he is incredible. And I like don't say that lightly. I mean like combo brag. I have degrees in music. Like I'm not just like, oh, he gets sing good. It's like, no, literally. I'm very aware that he is so much better than everyone else in the world. Yeah. And he's got such a cool look and a great story and a wonderful heart. And so we knew that the voice was going to push his story. I knew that all the judges were going to turn around. I knew he got picked. And so when that episode came to air, we already knew like how to get all of his social media feeds. Ready and his tagging and... How much time do you have? He auditioned in October. And the episode didn't air till like two or three weeks ago. But you can already see like the level. You know, we were prepared to like help him handle all of the engagement that he was getting like how to funnel it, how to already have Instagram, highlight tabs where he was like highlighting when fans were doing, you know, reaction videos and all this stuff. And I got to say like he's doing way better with engagement than all the other people on the show. And part of that is because he's a good product. You know what I mean? Like he's a cool looking nice guy who's held a talented. Right now everyone on the show is. So, but his engagement levels are like comments and the hundreds whereas other people that are trending on the show are getting like five and six where his video on NBC's page was getting like 2.8 million views and some of the other audition ones were still only getting 20 to 40,000. And these are still people that also got through when are on team Alicia and like art that should be realistically at the same level and he didn't have a big following going in. He had less than like 3,000 followers going in. But we knew ahead of time like what is your look? How often are you posting? How can we make sure that you're engaging in answering everybody? And that you also have time to like enjoy it and like respond to all your families, text messages and all your friends. Like how many texts did you say he got like the day after? Hundreds. It was like ridiculous. But yeah, and then we even captured and this is what I wish I have been able to do with dancing man. You know, I captured on video like high quality on these same cameras using today like him watching his first blind audition and his friends all watching at a party that night and got it done it online within one hour. Like he was still at the bar celebrating. And like this was up and NBC called and they were like, did we make that video for you? Did we have that footage to put online? He's like, nope, my friends made it and they can sign releases if you want. So like literally NBC was like, they did that one day. That would have taken our team day. Like they literally thought they shot it. Yeah. And we're like, no, we just had it ready to go. And made sure that he had a team behind him so that he could enjoy it so that he could eat and sleep in ways that I didn't win my stuff blew up. That he could focus more to somewhat he needed to do for him. And the reason you do that is because you want to maintain an audience so that no matter what happens on this show, he can still like create his own content, create his own music moving forward. You know? Like I'm friends with the guys from in sync. And I was in Lance's wedding, like real close to them. And it blows my mind that like he has less than half a million followers on Instagram even though the number one is like selling band of all times. Because they weren't big when social media happened. Yeah. And even people I friends who got very far in the voice season one and same thing like they didn't have Instagram or YouTube at that time with them. So it's like making sure that he's that you know, we set up a website for him. We're collecting people's email addresses who like what he's doing right now. So while he has this 15 minutes of spotlight that we can retain information to connect into his fans after this. You know? Because American Idol creates stars that show they sign contracts. They own you for 20 years. Like they create recording artists. The voice doesn't do that. It's episodic television. It's individual story lines each week. So how can we make sure that if he can get 100,000 a million fans in this year while he's on TV all the time that he owns their email addresses that he owns that following. So that even if he doesn't win the voice or you know, doesn't think different that when he writes a book or he releases a Christmas album like he can let his fans know. Like so I think just preparing yourself to capture contact information from your fans in like a non-aggressive way. Sure. And like I always go back to Seth Goden. He always talks about permission marketing was a book that he wrote. Like he was way ahead of the game. He wrote this in like 2001 or 2000 before social media. He was like he's like, you know, this thing the internet is you know, I think it's going to actually be pretty successful. But he was talking about like make sure you have permission from your audience to actually talk to them. Don't just spam people with yours. Or doing a tasteful way that they really are they're accepting and they want to actually get from you. And doing this side of it for him was really different for us was I was in the thick of it because I was managing all the content in the emails in the comments and it's what pushed me away from wanting to do music. It's what pushed me away from wanting to be the face of a campaign ever again. I mean, I rarely even like would do an interview now that where like I'm being captured like this. I did like good morning Germany recently and I was like only if it never airs in America. And it's not online. Yeah. Because there's so much it actually drains you and there's a lot of thought and stress that goes into these interviews. But it's really I saw the comments. I saw the feedback. And even though 100 million people supported us, there were like 10,000 assholes in there. And they're vocal and they can reach you just as quickly as your parents can online. And I had to see that and it made me really pessimistic and it made me think that the world was full of jerks. And sometimes I look at their profile and I'd be like you're a nine year old. Like commenting on my YouTube telling me to kill myself. Like are you kidding me? And even though I didn't believe them, you know what I mean? Like even if they were saying things like, oh you guys are this through that is like, well you're wrong. I'm self aware. I feel good about what we're doing. Yeah. But now it just made me like I was like a hermit for a year after it. And so one of the things I'm doing for Terrence or for other clients now is like protecting them from that in the sense that like yes, you know he doesn't have to look at as much in the thick of it and he can stay a little bit more positive and focused on art that he's creating. Because those people are always going to be out there. Yeah. And this is you know something that I wanted to talk to you about because so I'm into this kind of deep work mentality. It's a book called Deep Work by Cal Newport which is you kind of schedule your time in and you don't get distracted by social media throughout the day. So really plan and make sure that you're actually you're doing it right and then don't get too caught up in emails. Don't reply to every single one. Don't reply to every single comment. And that's something that I try to do. See it's a double edge short like you said and like when you're an independent creator you when you don't have somebody like I can't afford to hire you to manage this stuff. Obviously down the road that will be an amazing to be able to do. So hey like make sure I don't see like these idiots because as much as you don't want it to affect you it does a little bit. It's got a little bit of a sting but also it takes a lot of time to go through. It's amazing to be able to hear from people that like have been affected by the work that you've done and like that stuff is like you really want to be able to see that. But I have trouble balancing the two and making sure I'm not spending too much time on it. Not seeing these shitty negative comments and then also making sure that I can that I'm still creating and I'm not actually wasting too much time because the algorithm like as you say like a lot of times adding comments and having that discussion online actually does help and will actually boost the visibility. So how do you balance these worlds as an independent creator? It's interesting. Now like on my very on my personal pages like that have my name on it I don't build like a lot of conversation with the public like I don't want that on something as my face on it anymore. So for any client that would be someone like you for example I actually do recommend like if you can afford it's a lot cheaper than content creation and we have team members for our company that do it for people for bands who can't keep up with it when they're on the road for example is like if you can hiring someone to do your community management like to be the filter of like weaving out the bad stuff and sending you the really good feedback or the personal questions is actually probably a lot more affordable than you think. And so it is worth looking into like if someone's just doing it one hour a day it can be really easy work. But otherwise it just takes a lot of like it takes a lot of self awareness like it takes a lot of tough skin to put yourself out there and of a side note that is not an answer to that question but it reminds me of it. I mentioned earlier that Monica Lewinsky spoke at the party and as been great with us and we were able to visit her this summer in London with Sean she wrote a the forward to a book and they asked me to contribute a few pages to it about cyberbullying and like about the same thing. The book is called shame nation and I wrote a bit about my experience but it's almost like a text book now so it's like if you actually are going into virality or if you do have a very large following it's a book worth reading in the sense of like when is it just people being jerks when is it actually a crime what someone is doing to you you know if they are like if someone puts your personal information out online you know or they threaten you in ways like where do your rights actually fall in this. The part that always stood out to me in that book was someone saying you don't even have to have the internet to be cyberbullied. There's dozens of cases right now of actually elderly people in nursing homes where like nurses aids and stuff have like taken embarrassing nude photos of them and they've got caught. Where it's like yeah you're 89 year old grandmother might be getting cyberbullied online right now and she would have no idea she's even know what Twitter is. And so that's a cool book that's like if you're going into it to read it and understand so if you do feel like okay I have a tough skin I'm ready to read these comments I feel reassured and loved by the people who mattered to me in my life. But when are people crossing the line and what is the best defense to because it talks a lot times to about like when is it actually best to respond when it's best to just delete it and block the person you know sometimes if you're a company and someone says like oh you're your products are crap I bought this coffee cup from you and the handle broke right off. You should respond to that publicly you know you should address those issues but if you're a person and they're like hey I don't like you because I think you're probably blah then is it easier or more appropriate to just delete it. Like when when do you actually engage in those conversations? Yeah how do you feel about that from like a ethical and moral perspective of the leading comments because like what this takes being self aware but what if it's actually a criticism I put out a video and I'm talking about creating consistent content or whatever and it's like somebody actually disagrees with me it says actually I don't think that you're right I think you actually should be making content every single day if I delete that I don't think that's a good way to be a creative. Yeah I'm super down to have conversations and to take criticism from someone who's coming to you from a polite standpoint you know what I mean but one thing to remember is like this profile like that's yours like someone will be like oh it's my he took away my fridge of speech and like no this is it's like this is my dinner table and like I didn't invite you into my home to talk shit about the meal I just cooked for you. Yeah you know what I mean? So there's that level of like no actually this is my platform and especially if you have a big following you're now getting eyes put on you from like this platform and following that I built and like no you don't have a right to be nasty in that space. So sometimes if it's really harsh but it sounds like it's coming from maybe a misled standpoint and it is something that's worth deleting because it's attracting more negative attention than goods and sometimes I'll just DM the person you know and actually engage in a conversation if it seems like they're down to have that talk. Sometimes it's just being really playful about it. The negative feedback that we have getting if any for about Terrence is his hair. So he has dried locks and he hasn't like twisted into a cool bun. There's been a handful of like midwestern soccer mom types that are like he can really get a hair looks like a butthole. So he just responded and he's like it's inspired by like you know ancient African tribal hair Wakanda forever. It's it's it's it's it ends up being like light hearted. Right. You can't it can only affect you as much as he will let it and sometimes that's why I'll just do like an upside down smiley face and people who would like give me an ass to comment or I'll love part of it. Because I think the people like and people might say well you should really just be you know spreading love to those that are being positive to you. But I'm like really the people that need the love the most are these ones that are being negative like what's going on right. What's going on in your life that like you and like if you're negative back to them if you're snappy back at them you're like well fuck you then all of a sudden it's just going to unwind and like that person is going to feed right into their ego. It spirals and they just want attention. They really just want attention. And yeah. I'm a firm believer that hurt people hurt people and if it's a child like if I can look and see it's someone under 16 or like under 15. I sometimes have like then click to find their mom on Facebook and then like do you know your 10 year old son is like telling people that they're fat and ugly and they should die like you know maybe you didn't realize you're a crappy parent so I'm here to let you know. Sometimes when it's kids involved it's way more sensitive and they don't understand the level of what they're doing and that is worth like finding a way to have a private conversation. But yeah I think if they're not if constructive criticism is very different from like hate messaging and learning how to decipher that as important as a creative and like learning how to take that negative feedback. And it probably hurts you most when you're worried that it's true. You know. Right. Yeah if they actually tap into some insecurities that you have for sure. Then all of a sudden even if you pretend like yeah that doesn't hurt then you kind of it's it's in the back of your mind. Yeah. It's just why like it can sound egotistical but like the people who were like oh you can't saying I'd be like no I can. Yeah. Those comments never hurt my feelings you know what I mean? Yeah. It's like when you talk about what someone looks like that then they look in the mirror and they're like do I have a double chin? Like how many chin do I have? I thought I just said one. Yeah. That then that's the stuff that you take personally. Mm-hmm. Is there any merit too? I think this is what you're going to disagree with. This is how I've been living my life. But you probably just because this is your job. But I feel like there is an element in it agreed to be so good the algorithm doesn't matter. Where if I just keep putting out dope shit and like making videos that are really engaging and that pull people in then it's not going to matter if I respond to every comment in the first hour that's going to boost the algorithm a little bit. If over the long run if I'm just keep consistently making great content that's going to be more important or overall it's not going to matter to me because I'm happy with whatever audience I get from that. Well, yeah it isn't that it doesn't matter it's that like you're on top of it. And it depends on what success is for you in the sense of like are you getting a million likes? Yeah but do you have a hundred million followers or only one percent liking it? So it depends on like when you like what your level of success is. Or like what the standard is that you're looking to hit I think. But I guess that that's the thing is that so I just hit 50,000 subscribers on YouTube which was like Congrats. Thank you so much huge milestone and it happened in two months and I was like didn't expect it but I'm like holy shit that just came out of nowhere. And then I see this guy Peter McKinnon I don't know if you heard of him he's an amazing YouTuber just unbelievable videos. And he in the past year has gotten 1.8 million and like but like just so good but then all of a sudden I go from this high to this low where I'm like well not Peter well I didn't get 1.8 million in a year like I've been doing this for a year and a half and I haven't gotten it. Well you're not Peter but you're also not Richard and he only has three subscribers. Exactly but that's the thing and that's a problem when we're I think comparing ourselves other people we can get trapped even if we're in like a unconventional path we're a filmmaker we're not a nine to five or you can get trapped in the rat race and you can get trapped in that. I think it's just if the goal is not numbers if the like to have I think it's important to have a really specific idea of what success looks like to you so taking it back one step and then answering that is that when I was doing music professionally and I had gone to school with it you know I went to like jazz arts high school I went to you know college for it came out here it was in a band and did the awards and the TEDx so it's almost things we mentioned but I wasn't happy with like the lifestyle attached to it I realized I didn't want any kind of personal fame after experiencing accidental virality I realized I didn't like eating dinner at midnight after shows and like being on the road so I asked myself at the core like what do I like about what I get to do every day? and how can I do that in another field that is a better quality of life so I was like okay at the root of it all you think when you're a kid like I want to be a singer I want to be famous on Britney Spears you know where my case like I want to be Beyonce which was just not realistic for me so okay so we all wanted to be Beyonce so when you hit that point in life we all hit where you realize you're not Beyonce you wake up every day and you're like you're still not Beyonce you know I was like okay well I like being creative I like telling stories I like being able to you know have pink hair and tattoos and it doesn't matter and waking up without an alarm clock just like when I want to each day and all of these things so I was like okay I like those things how can I do them in a different field and ironically like helping brands tell stories was fulfilled a lot of those same things for me and so then it was like okay well then what's my idea of success and for me it was like making you know not wanting a mega mansion and stuff I have a bit of a minimalist in me too but it was like okay I want to make enough money that I live comfortably and I can spend a shit ten of my time in the national parks because that's like where my real passion lies and so success for me wasn't about like even on my personal page isn't about having a million followers or having 50% engagement which is I don't think anyone has that not even Beyonce forgive me be but they for me it was like okay well then I just want to create a page that is enough of a calling card that I get hired for work I feel good about that pays for my life and then like that feels good and I don't need to beat in algorithm that's how I'm choosing to use my creative platform right now is like it's more like a living portfolio of my work it's a calling card of my work and it's a representation of what I stand for which is just capturing joy and building community and so you may not need to beat the algorithm you may not need one point eight million followers Maddie of LMA max out at 51,000 and you may do everything in life you want to do and like make all the money you need to make to live the life you need to live and be really happy I think my favorite thing about that is just the redefining and trying to figure out what success is a lot of times early on in life we get a little bit less stray and we kind of are pulled into somebody else's idea of what success is and then it takes kind of experience and maybe pursuing something or having this realization that you know what actually why am I going after all that stuff just because I was told just because whatever those pressures they will never go away in the sense that we're always going to be seeing these images and we're going to see the Peters of the world and we're like oh I want that I want what he has and then you have to just continually remind yourself and be like well you know actually no that's not what I want I love the work I do every single day and that's the most important part if I can wake up every day and make videos and make a living doing that holy shit how lucky am I and know that making a pivot in your career is like not an end I'll be all so if you grew up and you wanted to be a lawyer because you wanted to like try cases in court it's like you know 2% of lawyers are like court lawyers you know like you know you're probably like writing contracts for like prescription companies or something and if you wanted to be a cop because you wanted to like capture the bad guys like you're probably going to be writing parking tickets and doing paperwork and even if you wanted to be a teacher you're going to have this crazy amount of like like procedure to what you do and you're not going to get to be a creative and how you work with the children as you thought and so a lot of times the career you've aspired your whole life to get to the 10% of it you wanted is great but the 90% that you never knew came with it sucks and it's okay to make a big pivot and it doesn't mean that you're a failure it means that like you realize that the quality of life that comes with that identity may suck for you maybe really different than it was 20 years ago when you first wanted to be that it takes so much courage to be able to do that like imagine a teacher that's been doing it for 5-10 years that went to college for it they feel so committed they put all this time and energy into it and then now to switch up and do something entirely different actually at Joel P. West who's a composer brilliant composer he's so talented but he was a teacher and I think he actually it was maybe a year that he did it some people might be more but he went to school for it he did all this stuff and like most people would probably most people definitely would stick around for much longer for the paycheck for whatever just the comfort and the security of knowing you have a job and then moving towards 10 year a few people would give that up but he was like you know what this is as you know great it is for a lot of people I don't really enjoy this so he just stepped out and just struggled to make it as a musician life that sucks I mean like you can you can choose to change your path at any given time so it's like if if the job that you have to maintain to keep your like big house sucks then like work at Starbucks and get an apartment you love you know what I mean like you can downsize and change and you can ask for help like if you're in a partnership it doesn't need to be 50-50 sometimes it's going to be 90-10 sometimes you're going to give you're all and sometimes you're going to need them to pull the way and it's okay to like ask for that help and to be the one that needs the support sometimes but you know or realize that you can transition within an industry you know so I have a lot of friends who went out to be teachers and didn't like it and ended up working for textbook companies to like oh actually want to change what kind of information is going to be available because I can actually make more of the changes I thought I wanted and they never grew up thinking they wanted I'm really like clearly second the teacher mindset but be the same thing where you wanted to be a professional singer and you actually want to be now like a music director or you're just going to be a songwriter you know because you realize like that's where and then you don't have to do all the other crap and you walk down the street without paparazzi bothering you whatever it is sometimes those behind the scenes careers that are actually like the supporting roles in the career you thought you wanted make more money and have a more stable life yeah sometimes being the director is a way better life than being the star mm-hmm film 100% and that leads to a good segue to this week's audience question from Gustavo Gustavo's got a question here about let me pull this key well he's got a question that's really related to experimenting and this is like I call you a Swiss army knife at the beginning because like you're like a photographer or filmmaker brand strategist content creator you've got about a hundred different titles so he's kind of wondering how to go about pursuing different interests hey Matt my name is Gustavo I'm a student I always use studying digital communications and my question for you is how do you diversify your knowledge how do you diversify your knowledge and having multiple interests remain on the same path of the creative field that you picked so I started my creative journey doing videos and I got really involved in that and made some money from that but lately I've been really focusing a lot or I guess it's been more time doing photography graphic design and motion graphics so my question I guess really is is do you think it's better to focus on one thing? I was at OK to diversify a multiple areas and if you do diversify how do you manage to have your time dividing into different things and still produce a good quality content things a lot all right hope so what do you think some of the questions yeah multi-talented so I think the main way that I do that and it works for my personality because I would get bored in a nine to five I would get bored if I was doing just one thing like super redundant is sometimes rather than having like ten clients a week that you're designing a logo for if you can create a lot of brand trust if you can create really good relationships with companies that you end up being able to do multiple things for them some that are definitely your strong suit you lead with and others that are kind of the supplemental things and this is probably like the later end of this answer is that you can have like two clients a week instead of ten that you're doing more for that enables you to try out and work out your skills in different ways with learning them I just found ways to do it in my own personal daily life and for friends for free at the beginning so I worked during the week even when I was just doing music and then on the weekends I'd you know get girlfriends in the car and go to Joshua tree I've been like let's just take like let's take photos and like oh you're doing yoga like let me work on building your website and I would I would try things out for free with friends because then there's not this pressure you can take your time you can watch a million youtube tutorials on how to do something and build that skill set up in any of the spare time that you have and sometimes it means that you have a job until your career is paying for your life so if you know like if Gustavo doesn't have time to do all these things and to like be practicing his other skill sets outside of the work he's being paid for right now sometimes it means like you know you work at a coffee shop in the morning and you know that that pays your rent and then now you're definitely free at nights on the weekends and like this is what you're doing with your friends around yourself with other creative people that are either going to be cool and flexible like letting you try out new skills with them or they're going to teach you some of them I was you know to learn Premiere I like bought a friend dinner and was like hey can you sit next to me this restaurant and show me like the real basics and now it's three years later and I still just one day go ahead of friend come over being like can you explain this one really simple thing on Premiere and me that I don't get and also I gotta say make if you do that make sure you take notes because my sister calls me every day I'm making a video and like I'm trying to upload it to YouTube but the quality is low and I'm like we shall I can't do this every day yeah taking notes I mean honestly like finding extra time to watch YouTube tutorials but really being intentional about your day I'm really methodical I have the nerdyest notebook with me my boyfriend and I both have been doing but we literally have like seven extra things that we're trying to fit into our schedule every week oh my god can you show that? hold that up closer to the camera so I can get it so we mark out like every day has five spots you can colour in on it and we have seven things we're trying to do more of that week that month and then you try to make sure you're doing at least five of them a day so what we're going to do and sometimes it's really generic things like do something social because I would just be working and be at home and be like oh I see my partner every day that's enough but I was like no meet up with a friend every day and I wasn't doing that and then now that's on my goals this month and I'm getting that done but then in the days behind it we have then for each week a list of like everything I have to get done that week with invoices, with calls with immediate to do lists and we check it off in a really methodical and I think if you're really organized about your day especially if you're an entrepreneur the more organized you are about the day and the rhythm of your life the less time you've spent like feeling chaotic and troubled and the more free time you have to practice these things I also don't have TV and so I end up like having more time to play learning these other skillsets and constantly like sharpening my creativity by doing that and then also just following people that you're inspired by that I learn strategies I just follow all the people that are doing well at it and look for patterns I think to piggyback on the state organized and have kind of a methodical approach to it let's say like he starts out with filmmaking I think you should pursue that craft until you're pretty good like not you don't have to be a master you don't have to wait years and years before you switch up to another path or pick up photography but make sure you're not just kind of picking something I know people that are serial creators or like think around with something and then give it up I don't want to do photography and then give it up and it's like make sure you actually stick with it and build it up be good enough that somebody would actually pay you whether it's a hundred dollars or a thousand dollars if somebody can pay you you've mastered it you've come far enough along but a lot of the other interest he was talking about was graphic design, motion graphics photography they're all related and that's like what I did when I was it's not like I dabble in golf but I also want to kayak right yeah yeah like those are not going to help each other at all I don't think unless somebody like hits a golf ball at you while you're settling in a kayak with your golf clubs I'm on a budget and but I think that that's like so I was doing graphic design like tinkering with graphic design and motion graphics and then including those in my videos and it's like tight marriage between all those that it's not going to be a big deal to dabble into those and they're going to help lift each other and when you feel stressed ask for help so I will tell clients like I can design really simple graphics and posters or some simple logos and things and so I do take on that work but if that isn't your sharpest skill yet and you get into something where they ask for something you can't do like have no that you can sub-contract someone so for all these things you're dabbling in when you get into the morphing of like I'm going to start taking payment for them but I'm not like totally confident on the entire spectrum of this craft then no like yes I'm going to commit to this project I'm going to do video but maybe there's one aspect of it I can't do I've been working with NPR on their social for the last two and a years and I do video and they wanted a really specific thing recently where the title was handwritten with all the details that couldn't figure it out keyframes are just not my jam and so that's when I knew in my back pocket like I have a friend who can do that and so I did take on the job knowing that handful of the things were still like loser skillsets of mine but I had a backup so there wasn't a panic of like I'm in over my head hmm yeah I feel like that that's I think one of the biggest thing about being a creator on an untraditional path is managing the kind of anxiety and the stress and the client requests it can be difficult but when you have people that you can count on when you you're in a bind that's going to be so it's about building relationships and picking the right clients like not just taking anybody so I know like I'm a pretty decent photographer but all my work is seen on a two inch screen you know so like if then a client is like oh can we use one of these photos for this new billboard which just happened me recently and I'm like I don't really do that scale where you're going to see every nose hair it's not my thing so knowing when you are in over your head and picking the clients it like fit for what your skill set is right now like even when I've designed 35 websites or so in the last few years not website designer real great was course made but I'll tell people you know like yeah if you want to start a website it's going to cost you like a couple thousand dollars and get you through the first year you need more you know more like interaction type things you can do in your site that I can't code for you by hand then save up and like upgrade your website a couple of years when your company gets to that level but like I'm great for you at this point yeah it's good to be honest to either part of that what they're actually getting be honest and if there's a little bit of that's out of your league like if you can do that entire video you just can't do the title card make sure you have a backup friend before it great this is your time to make those connections and give them all right you want to get to quick questions quick questions not quick answers so elaborate first one this one's just specifically for you can I delete my Facebook yet I have to keep it like what's going on personal profile not personal my business it's I just I feel like I don't get any traction on I would delete it so yeah I tell most of my clients to delete them right now because pages are getting way way way way less placement in the algorithm just period and they've actually done trials in certain countries with Facebook where they've taken all business pages completely out of your news feed and then you have a separate tab that's like do I want to see business agencies and no one's going to click that and they saw organic engagement drop like 90% and it basically forces you to have to pay to see how all of your content scene so if you're going to keep a business page on Facebook right now post significantly less and set aside in your budget even if it is $20 a month and you're doing five dollars a week to actually boost some posts so you know they're seeing or get your following on your personal page if you're the kind of person who's like you're not posting pictures of like your kids every day whatever something that you don't want the whole world get followers on your personal page we have one client like that it was half a million followers on her personal Facebook page and like that will never get sucked away yeah Facebook can't take that away business pages can't change in that way yeah so if you're not really attached to using your personal page aggressively I would try to convert your followers there where if you're starting right now from scratch or you have a moment of morality like Terrence did try to get those followers on your personal page you can follow or if you have business well we started that and then the voice called and they were like you need a fan page I was like talent and then you had to yeah I don't know the right I like the idea of deleting it it just sounds good because delete it and then run and add sometimes when you need to yeah you don't need that page to be public to write something for it so next time you do a big film you're like minimalist part two we're like just kidding now I'm a hoarder yeah just kidding now I'm a hoarder it's a prank I'm a hoarder I've got hoarding minimalist things yeah so when you do that movie just run an ad for it you have to have an account but you don't you don't have a public account you can still run an ad that's actually a good thing to know because I get like two likes per post and I'm like what is the point I don't know I think it actually hurts legitimacy because I think if people are going to pop around and say like oh like how many followers do you have but if you have an innocent in your Facebook as a hundred followers or change the way your content is posted natively to each site should be different so what does well for you on Instagram doesn't necessarily do well on Facebook I have a client who we post almost every day on Instagram she's 20,000 followers on Instagram but a decent amount of engagement she's almost 100,000 followers on Facebook but no engagement so now once a week she does a Facebook live Thursday and that gets a crazy amount of engagement and that's like basically the only thing we do on there now so maybe find don't just repurpose do never like auto post from Instagram onto all your platforms that's what I do all the time it's so tacky it's not tacky it's not tacky I'm a 12 year old hater yeah yeah yeah just click it check yourself great job old man yeah I think what I it's hard it's hard you can't just keep making different stuff for everything what I do is yeah you're like that with Instagram stories they're like formatted a certain way whatever right because I think there's certain investment right and Instagram and you don't have to be big on every platform that's what I think is that's what I think every toilet paper company doesn't need a snapshot you really don't yeah sureman why like it's weird why are all these companies all these brands have every single thing the only way I would have different the only way I'd be on a ton of platforms is if I found it a really different following so occasionally you'll see like you have a much older following on Facebook and a much younger following on Instagram and then in that way you're going to create really different type of content and there's some cool studies that will show you like baby boomers don't trust brands so they want like more DIY facts like information step by step stuff to build brand trust millennials wanted to like look cool they want to know like that person's cool they know what they're doing like it looks good you know and like you're even younger ones like they just want to quick you can't annoy them from more than 15 said you know they're not listening to this podcast they're not maybe they just gave up within the past year this in a history class but yeah so like if you if you find the of a really if you look at your analytics and you find that your follower demographic is really different on different platforms then like yes spread out but otherwise you don't need to be on every platform and like if you're just going to post on twitter and you're never going to interact with anyone like get off twitter yeah it's not but that's for it's timeline magnetic if you're not interacting in the moment it's a waste if you're having auto post go up at 4 a.m. when you're not there to interact no it's so stupid but I think you can try to both of that because I do that I do I mean I push out the videos on twitter like because I'll make a one minute video that I put on instagram and then I'll push it out to twitter and then you know it's not the the most reaction and interaction I get it's just straight text base is when I type something and interacting with people but like I don't think it's it's bad to just like have those yeah I would say the short summary is that like snapchat is like day to day storytelling LinkedIn is really good for article shares like writing like notes writing notes this is where all the yeah no it's just people who like to read they can have it up on their screen at work and it doesn't look like why are someone's tits yeah because it's you can't control that it's just and you're like just boobs and boobs you know we love boobs but you know we're culture of boobs but yeah and then you know Facebook is somewhere you can have more depth PR shares and editorial content Instagram is really visual and like you know if you're just making visual content then you don't need to be on all those platforms editorial content like don't make a million Instagram posts that are just tons of words on words or screenshots of your Twitter's what's that yeah what is that you're screenshotting your Twitter to turn it into a photo screenshotting your notes it's really something it's something that people are doing that isn't the best thing but whatever do whatever no I mean sure you're probably going to find out that this is a great podcast still isn't too if you want me to anonymously shame you for all it's okay it's okay to shame as long as it's anonymous and it depends on your purposes sure you know my older sister love her you know she married her college sweetheart they have a bunch of kids live in South Carolina her Facebook is like a couple hundred friends and they're it's basically one big group chat text it's like here's a picture of what my kids doing every day you know she's not putting up self she's probably not even her profile picture it's probably like your kids foot or something seriously it's cute foot but they it's like it's it's not like everyone has to do social media certain way but if you're intentionally trying to sell a brand like know how to use these platforms really I guess question number two oh these are quick response they're not quick response quick questions but that was I just I was going to ask that one but I was like might as well just make it a part of the question here I knew it's going to go on for a very long time but all right a couple quicker quicker ones where do you go and you're feeling doubt oh Joshua tree hmm I have the geocordnets on my arm case ever oh what's the special about it it's just quiet there is no Facebook in Joshua tree there's no service like Trump's not president in Joshua tree I don't know if you know that yeah yeah yeah I heard he's not president in California yeah yeah no no but definitely not out there it just reminds me that the world is huge and my shit doesn't matter and I'm really small can you see the stars yeah yeah it's just really quiet and yeah it just takes me back to like a much calmer place what's the simplest as what's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow wow usually such a quote person what is like you may have to cut out real quick so maybe like long record buzz in a bucket oh hold on to where you're from it's where your heart goes when you're done hmm I love that hmm and it's just like I I've always lived far away I've moved far away from my family but like keeping keeping ties to like the people in the places that may do who you are and it's what keeps you grounded to your most authentic self and last question what one thing should people watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight actually second to last question if you haven't heard sleeping at last he's a musician he doesn't ever perform out live but he puts out these amazing little four song EPs called like Atlas and each song is about a different aspect of space it's the soundtrack to a lot of like ABC shows so you probably heard his music and not known it um but his music especially his record light which is just four songs is so peaceful and beautiful and pure it's probably one of the best things to do for bed every night but tonight is especially great and what's the best way for people to connect with you online at hopefully on Instagram H o P E E L E I G H but you can remember it because it sounds like my name is hopefully they mean it's like your tagline just put a thanks so much for doing this show Thank you so much Thank you for listening Thanks for watching line that hope said during this podcast was don't get stuck that sucks you can choose to change your path any given time sometimes it's the simplest advice that's the most important and the one that's closest to home so that's what I'm going to leave you with today thank you so much for listening thank you for watching and I'll see you guys next week
