# Ground Up 045 - Reject Perfection w/ Caroline Lee
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rf4i8oLA9mQ
http://www.groundupshow.com

Caroline Lee is a photographer & podcaster that wants you to ship your ideas. As she explains, we learn the most when we’re constantly creating & releasing our work. For many of us the problem comes when we spend too much time with a project. We labor over every detail, each pixel, until it’s perfect. The problem? Perfect doesn’t exist.

Caroline makes a wonderful case for rejecting perfectionism. We also reminisce about the first time we cursed, tell awkward stories about nude spa’s & how to break through the noise in 2018.

Caroline's podcast: https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/out-of-line-with-caroline-lee/id1295378880?mt=2
Caroline's Photography: http://www.woodnotephotography.net/
Caroline's Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/teamwoodnote/?hl=en

Watch this episode:  mattdavella.com/043
Exclusive content:  groundupshow.com

Thanks for listening! If you've got a minute I'd really appreciate a rating on iTunes.
**Keywords:** caroline lee, photography, podcast, photographer, film, filmmaking, filmmaker, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, the ground up show, ground up, interview, self help, how to, perfection, perfectionist, 
**Date:** 2018-02-07

## Transcript
 I think sometimes the people who we see as, you know, great artists or great creators. A lot of times they're actually not the best that's out there. It's just that they're the best at putting their work out there and having it be seen. Some of the best creators and artists in the world are people that haven't even been discovered because they're not promoters. They're not people who know how to market themselves or maybe they don't even have the confidence to put their work out. Caroline Lee is a podcaster and photographer that wants you to ship your ideas. She says that we learn the most when we're constantly creating and releasing our work. For many of us, the problem comes when we spend too much time with the project. We labor over every detail each pixel until it's perfect. The problem? Perfect doesn't exist. In our conversation today, we discuss what it takes to make great art when feedback is important. We tell awkward stories about nude spas and how to break through the noise in 2018. But before that conversation, let us do some housekeeping. I'm starting to take questions on this podcast. The most common emails that I get are from creatives asking me for advice about their specific struggles. If you have a question, if you're a filmmaker, creative and artist and you want to send, get my advice and my guest advice, send a video of your question under two minutes to helloatmatdivella.com. I look forward to hearing from you. If you don't know how to spell my last name, DAVV as in Victor, E-L-L-A rating. Have you gotten some value out of the ground up show? If so, I'd love it if you could give me a quick rating on iTunes. I want to keep this podcast 100% advertisement free because advertisement, like, what's worse than a ten minute advertisement before a podcast starts? No offense to people and podcasts to do that. I listen to a lot of podcasts to do that. It's just like, I don't want you to have to skip over it and waste your time listening to a pitch for a product. So I don't do advertising and I want to keep it that way. But in order to do that, I want to build this show. I want to be able to help get these stories, these amazing stories in front of even more people. So, leave a rating that really helps. And I mean, at the bare minimum, and it makes me feel warm and fuzzy on the inside. And I feel like that alone should incentivize you to leave a rating. All right, let's get to this week's podcast episode. This is the amazing, Carolina League. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matthew Evela, and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary Minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. Check one, two, howdy sound. I sound like this. Great. You got a good podcasting voice, by the way. Thank you. Is that why you got started? Did somebody tell you, like, you need to be on radio? No, no, no. No, not, that's not true. But, you know, it's sometimes I listen to episodes that I record and think, oops, vocal fry. A little too much. Vocal fry. A little too much. Yeah. Vocal fry is one of those things that I don't notice until somebody points it out. I find myself slipping into it sometimes as well. Like, I mean, even, like, sometimes our voices naturally have a little bit of fry to them, right? Right. But I think it's when I think specifically, it can be a little bit too effective in women's voices. Sure. And so, yeah, just, you know, we're trying to... Because you want to sound strong. You don't want to be like, I don't... Right. I don't know. Yeah. Thinking too hard. Yeah. It's just not, it's just, you know. Yeah. I don't want to remove all possible judgment. Well, not all possible, but within reason. Right. Well, that's one of those tough things where you want to improve. And, like, you were saying before we started the podcast, you'd listen back to your episodes, and then maybe not release them right away, and then you start to doubt whether you're like, Ah, no. This is like, this wasn't that good. I shouldn't release this thing. Yeah. That's old me. Oh, yeah. Before I knew that I said that thing too many times. Like, oh, I love that. I said that so much. And I'm just like, oh, yeah. I did it again. My thing is no way. No way. No way. Like, I'm always just blown away by people. No way. Oh, you're in your very positive listener. Yeah. I think that's probably a good thing. It is. Yeah. I wonder sometimes if listeners pick up on those subtleties. Um, I hope not, but probably. Yeah. That's why I mean, even looking at feedback. I don't like to. I mean, thank God so far. I haven't gotten much negative feedback. I don't see much. Um, but do you look at that? Is it even worth it? Because it's great to see the good feedback. It's great to see when people are happy and excited about what you're working on. But then inevitably, you're going to see a couple people in there that just say mean things. And sometimes it like cuts you to the core. You're like, damn it. Yeah. That's exactly what I was thinking about myself. I'm still waiting for a bad review, which hopefully they're not going to happen now because they just put it out there. Yeah. Yeah. I'm still waiting for like a negative review publicly. And when I've gotten feedback, it's because of asked for it. So I've been like prepared and open to if someone's like, hey, you do this thing. Or hey, we hate it. What this thing that you do. Stop it. Stop doing this. Um, yeah. So so far when I've gotten feedback, it's because I am open to it. Right. But I think when you get it and you're not expecting it, that's when I could be like, little. Yeah. I haven't gotten it on the iTunes. Yeah. It's like, right reviews or ratings. Yeah. Either way. It's like, just as boring as shit. I hate that. Uh, like, don't listen to this podcast. Which I think I'm actually ready for it when we release minimalism. Um, I think there was like, you can, I don't know if they still do it, but on Netflix, they would have comments where you can, like, see what people are saying about it. And I didn't read it, but my co-producer Josh said he's like, yeah, man. Like, well, because I was making fun of him because I saw somebody said that they weren't real minimalist because they used hair product and got fancy haircuts. And I was like, I was dying laughing because that kind of feedback. It's like, it obviously doesn't sting. It's just that person is insane. He doesn't get quite get the concept. Right. Uh, but then he's like, yeah. And I saw one about you where somebody said, this would be a good documentary. If they hired a good director for it. And I was like, uh, I just thought it was funny. But at the same time, you're like, damn, like, that's a burn right there. Um, but I think you just got to take it. The bigger you get and more people that you reach inevitably. You're going to rub some people the wrong way. Yeah. And I think that's part of having a good. I don't want to say brand, but it's. It says that you stand for something if you have haters. Because if everyone likes you, then I think that's what we call vanilla. And most people like vanilla and most people like cheese pizza. Even if they don't love it, they don't. No one has hate feelings for vanilla or cheese pizza. People might have hate feelings for like blue moon with cereal chunks in it. Because they're like, oh, but then at least the people who love it really love it. And their fans for life, like, die hard blue moon with cereal chunks in the hands. I have never heard of that combination. I just made it up. Might have to try it. I was going to say pralines and dick. And then I was like, that's good. That's good. That's, uh, you know, Wayne's world reference. Yeah. And I didn't know. I was allowed to say pralines and dick. I can't. You can now. Yeah. It's funny because half of the episodes. Like I'm like, what did we curse on that episode? I totally forget. Like I curse quite a bit. But I sometimes put a filter on, especially when I'm hanging out with my nephew or younger kids. I'm like, you, you kind of put that filter on yourself and it carries through to the rest of your life. But then on the podcast, it's just 50, 50. Sometimes it depends on my guess. If they will, then I'll just be like, all right, then I come back into cursing. But then I don't know whether to put that explicit thing on iTunes. I saw that you did it for all of them. And I was like, I should probably just do that even if it's not just because actually that don't just to let people know the kind of character you're going to be. Well, and, you know, we talk about all sorts of weird things. And it's not the whole topic isn't always about that one weird thing. But sometimes it'll come up for like three minutes. And I don't want to have to take it out because, you know, it's a young audience. Plus, I feel like more and more people are just, you know, like all my friends that have kids will just tell their kids like, sometimes people say these words. And this is, we don't say these words until we're this old or like, we don't. It's a nice thing. We have to kind of at some point tell kids, hey, some naughty old women that are in their 30s say words like dick. Do you remember the first time that you cursed? Yeah. When was? I remember, I remember, oh man, oh man, memories coming up. There was a girl that told me that I wasn't cool because I probably wasn't allowed to say that sucks. And I remember being like, I'm allowed to say that and she was like, ah, probably not. And it was like, it at our family's vacation home in Michigan. And so I only saw her in the summers, but she had this idea of me that was like, you know, I was not allowed to do anything. And so she's like, you're not allowed to say that sucks. And I was like, yeah, I am watched me. And so I just was like, ah, that suck. That sucks. And then I went home and I was like, ah, mom, that sucks. And she's like, you were not allowed to say that. Oh my god. That sucks. That's not really a terrible curse, but at the time sucks. And I think like we maybe maybe we've changed and we've all grown up as a culture. As to where we've decided to say sucks is not a bad word. And you could say sucks. I remember my buddy Jesse Earl still friends to this day. He was actually on this podcast. And he was, he was cursed in way before me. Like he got in the game a year before me. And you counted the days. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because I was like, I was like, a mom was boy, at least at this time. And I was trying to just, I was like, I didn't think cursing was a proper thing for a young boy to do. And then he's like, dude, you don't curse. Are you going to curse? And I was like, I curse, yeah. Shit. And I just said shit. And it just felt so, if I was wrong and right at the same time. And then since then, my life changed. Ah. Yeah, I just opened up an entire new way of living for me. It's just funny. I feel like everybody can probably remember hopefully the first time they cursed. If you like lived a somewhat innocent life. If you didn't live an innocent life, then like cursing was just part of your life from before you can remember. And maybe you're cooler. And the rest of us. Maybe you're cooler. That's probably it. But your podcast is called out of line. Is that because you touch on different topics or is it because it's kind of like you're talking about the whole idea of interviewing online person out. It's been talking about things. They don't typically discuss. Yeah, so the premise is all about people who have some sort of either. Following or just are known for something. So some of the people that I've had on our, you know, authors or musicians who their following online came after they had already created a name for themselves. So that's also been interesting to kind of see the difference between people who sort of found fame. Air quotes on the internet as like influencers or bloggers. And then people who had another reason why they were known. And then the following just came naturally because of the other thing that they created. Those are like two very different camps, which is interesting in itself. But then the whole podcast explores just something in their realities that they like their day to day normal life that they don't really talk about online. So something that isn't a part of their brand. So I wanted to, I wanted to play on like online offline. And so there was a lot of like walk the line getting thrown like I liked that line was like in both. And so yeah, just lots of playing with names and that's where out of line kind of. I forgot there was one I actually had thought I was going to use before out of line. And then I told I told a few people that know me really well and they were like, that's too boring for you like you need to do so you're like you're a little bit more like out of out of the norm out of the box. And so you need to not have it be so simple. And so I was like okay there we go. So then I then that's where out of line came from. Names are hard because you're kind of stuck with it's funny because I always think about like Blink 182 or limp biscuit. Like that's that actually shows you a lot about my childhood in the music I listen to. Like yeah, it's these names you get you kind of get stuck with especially if you start to or maybe feel like you get stuck with them. I was thinking about naming my podcast because the world needs another podcast. I like it instead of kind of turn into a little bit of a slogan but I was like I don't think I want to be stuck with that. I don't think it shows enough about the podcast. But then even the ground up show is like I really like the name. Although I get sick and tired of things that I create and I've like had five different business names for my freelance film work and I just get sick and tired like it started out with like black box films. It's like super corporate and just not actually started out as my name like Matt Diavella videographer. I don't know if you did that from a photography perspective where it's just like your name. But then it was like kind of rebranding it into a studio but I just could never find the name I was happy with. I love naming things and I've never changed the name before. I do have a pattern with my other businesses that they're always like alliterated. So I have a lot of other businesses and I don't mean to at all. But then as either if I have a business partner if I'm working with my husband then we'll just sit and brainstorm and whenever names come up they're always literated. But I love them. I love it. It's just I like the way it kind of just feels light and they all have meaning as well. Yeah, it has a nice flow to it. Yeah, but I've never changed a business scene. Yeah, I have that's a problem. Well, you know, I get bored in other ways where I'm like all right and I got to change this but I also feel like the names kind of evolve with whatever it is. I think the only that it's names are really interesting because like I have friends who use their real names in their projects and then as as they evolve then their projects kind of aren't allowed to. If that makes sense, like so let's say a musician uses their name and then the person keeps changing and evolving and they want to change and evolve their music. But their fans are like no you sound like this but because your identity is tied to the name it's a lot it's a lot more difficult than someone who's just like okay well now I'm going to start off the side project or now I'm going to start a side band because I want to do something different. It's like you know you can think of anyone Trent Rezner he has like a bajillion different side projects and things that he does but different names but if it was all just his name it you get a bit like box in where your fans are like what are you doing get back in your box right I I honestly think that like starting over is sometimes more difficult and starting to begin with because when you're just starting to begin with nobody's listening to nobody gives a shit what you're doing. So like the hard part is actually just building that traction and getting a following but then when you try to do something different then you have a lot of outrage from people who aren't ready for it. Who don't agree with the direction that you're editing so it can be it can be challenging in of itself. With your podcast what have you learned so it's been a couple of months now you started over the summer summer 2017 what have you learned about podcasting and the medium. Because we started similar times I think I started a couple months earlier in 2017 but relatively in the grand scheme of things we started at the same exact time. Yeah yeah it's well yeah I started in October so. Just about three month mark and I guess what I've learned is that it's kind of a it's sort of a newer. Community at the creative community so it's got it's finding its own kind of energy about. Protocol in the way that people the way that people interact with each other and the way that people help each other out like I love how there's. A lot of discussion going on and I think in general audiences have gotten a little bit. Tired I think of like the loud loud loud channels like Instagram and Facebook and Twitter when you go on and it's just like. Huge it's like you're opening a door and walking into an abyss like it just goes on forever there's no end to it. There's no kind of small community feeling anymore and I think that podcasting and podcasts and they're listening communities are kind of providing those smaller rooms for people to get to know each other. Whether there's like a Facebook group or people can discuss different episodes and what they thought people can have follow up dialogue. Even podcasts that have gatherings where people get together and get to meet each other face to face like and it's so funny because they're always like the same kind of people like you. Whether the podcasters know or not like their audience is usually pretty like they have a community that they can really connect really quickly and easily. Because they have a lot in common which is usually so rad to be like hey look at these people they all love this one podcast so it is a new frontier and it's getting kind of. I don't want to say saturated but it's growing really fast to the point where it's I wonder if it'll be like blogging where suddenly everyone has a blog everyone has a podcast. It is it is like the new blog. Yeah blog you can't start a blog now. Why would you ever start a blog? I actually started. It's so fast when people are like I'm a blogger or I'm blogging or I start I'm like. The saddest thing in the world is seeing the blog update hey guys I know I haven't posted in a while because I used to do that all the time like I've tried to start like 10 blogs in my life and then they all just failed because. Well I'm not a writer and like that's what I noticed and when I started to make original content earlier last year. I was like all right well like for whatever reason I was like all right I'll start writing pod of it's already in blog posts. Yeah and like I wrote about my experience making a documentary and all this stuff and I started to invest a lot of time into writing and I'm like I'm not a writer. I'm a filmmaker I should focus on making videos and then podcasting I was like oh I can make videos for my podcast and do this. But the blogs are tough now. I mean it is it even like I mean I know a couple I have a couple friends who have very popular blogs but they got started in 2010 and earlier. I feel like at this point in time it's just very difficult to it's is it impossible to break through the noise at this point. I think it's kind of I think even looking at something like SEO like you get a brand new blog and even if your content is amazing and you're posting all day every day. It's pretty tough to to compete with some of those other blogs that that have been around for a really long time but I think that like anything if it's truly original and unique and if it's actually. If what it is providing is something that isn't already out there then I do believe that there's a way to be air quotes discovered so that you can grow an audience from zero right now. I think you just have to be a lot better at what you're doing because I think 10 years ago you could be like kind of a hack job but if you were putting it out there everyone would be like wow amazing. And now you have to be real good real real good you also have to really love it because in the beginning if you don't truly love it if you don't truly love writing or whatever the craft is there's no way that you're going to be able to get through the tough times. No you have to be I my role is am I willing to put three years into this because in my experience it takes three years to really get something from absolute zygote phase all the way up to you oh this is now now people know what this is they know what to expect from this there I have like loyal people who believe in this. I've gone through my own trials of learning what I'm doing wrong now it's at a point where it's starting to make some money maybe but no way can you start something from from zero and actually be able to survive and pay the bills and not burn out. Yeah not a chance because I think that yeah right there's a progression there on a couple of different levels where obviously we're talking about creating something online that people are interested in consuming whether it's. You know podcasts or video or a blog but you have the progression of first of all building an audience and sometimes like the audience doesn't need to be that big. Say if it's your dietitian and you know how many clients do you need every month to actually run a sustainable business you might only need 300 people going to your website every month but then if you can get five clients from that that. Can help you pay the bills like that's all you need but it's the progression of getting an audience first and then also figuring out how to monetize that and how to make it sustainable because there's a lot of great artists out there there's a lot of really creative people that can't turn their passion into. A business and actually make money from it and that's a challenge in other itself. I think sometimes the people who we see as you know great artists or great creators a lot of times they're actually not the best that's out there it's just that they're the best at putting their work out there and having it be seen. In a way that people can have access to it I think some of the best creators and artists in the world are people that haven't even been discovered because they're not promoters they're not people who know how to market themselves or maybe they don't even have the confidence to put their work out. Because of their own whatever's like maybe they just care more about their art than promoting it or maybe they have social anxiety and don't want to put their work out there but it's better than the stuff that we actually are seeing. What's the name of that photographer that got discovered a couple years ago. I want to say gold gold to my ear but it wasn't it was Vivian. Yeah, it's just amazing. I don't know if I don't think I'm going to know who this person is. Oh, it was that that was that like really older nanny that had gotten like a photographer that had been taking photos for years and years and years. No one ever saw our work and she died and they found like hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of they've done. They did like a documentary about her and they she also has like now a freaking exhibition at art museums because her work was so stunning. But yeah, she's what I'm talking about where she will go. Vivian gold my ear. Not, not at all. Not that I heard not name. She was such an incredible photographer and artists but didn't promote it and no one even knew that she was creating this stuff. Wow. That's that's what I'm talking about. Those sad right? It's like come on. Yeah, but then oh, is it because is is notoriety what is that why we create as artists. It actually it actually really depends on if she was happier not like if she lived a happy fulfilled life then I'd be entirely happy for her because. Yeah, even like if you think about from our own perspective, like, is it the fact that people said, hey, I really liked what you did there or like people admired you. That's not why I make stuff. That's not what gets you out the door or why you grab the camera or you know get started with something. It's because you just really want to tell this story. Hmm. So yeah, I completely agree with you there. It is nice about it. Yeah, it's like she could have probably made a ton of money and could have been famous, but maybe like that's not what she wanted. Maybe she did, you know, like to be more of an introvert and she didn't like people and maybe she had enough money or whatever it is. It's interesting how people kind of attach notoriety and acknowledgement as like, oh, then then you've made it. And I think even about how kids like when you ask kids what they want to be when they grow up so many of them say like youtubers are like famous or like a rock star and it's so interesting like even as kids that in in their perspectives of the world what matters is like being acknowledged and seen as being great. I don't know. I'm into that question. Yeah, I actually totally forgot about that, but that I have heard that before. When kids ask what they want to be when they grow up a lot of them say famous. They just want to be famous. And I think probably part of it is the issue of struggling with popularity as a young kid because most kids aren't popular just by sheer number ratio. So like, oh, the popular kid, it seems like they got everything like that's what I want. But it does take a little bit of experience to realize, you know, that's not going to make you happy in the long run. Because look at how many people who like Jim Carrey said it where, you know, I wish everybody could get all the money and fame that they'd ever want so they could realize that it's not the answer. And it's only people like that people that have actually achieved all that and gotten everything they ever wanted that can really say that. Obviously it's hard to hear that advice when you're at the bottom where you don't have any money or you're not making ends meet, but it doesn't make it any less true. Yeah, and I think I just try to remember that on a personal scale, like when I achieved something that I think is going to be the best thing I've ever done in my life that I need to remember what it feels like to actually achieve it because it's like, oh, I'm still me. Everything's the same. I feel the same, my emotions are the same, my relationships are the same, nothing changed. So, and I was thinking about that the other day because one of my friends got a really big feature in a magazine and she said, this is what I've wanted since I was like 15 years old and now that I have it, nothing feels different. And I thought about that so much because that's exactly like the Jim Carrey thing of like, I wish that everybody could know what it feels like to get what you want and then be like, oh, that wasn't the point of life. So, I try to remember that on a small scale, not that I'm rich and famous, but just in my own things that I do, I don't want to, I don't want to keep chasing the next thing and keep fighting for more if I'm not. In gratitude with what I have right now. Otherwise, what's the point? Yeah, I think it takes a lot of introspection where when I first found out about simple living, I was like, it blew my mind. I was like, this is amazing. You mean like to tell me that it's because I heard about Tom Shadyak who he was like this massive Hollywood director and he moved into this 15, 20,000 square foot mansion, this beautiful home and he realized like, this is not making me happy. So he got rid of all the stuff donated a lot of his money and moved into a trailer, like a beautiful trailer park, but a trailer and on the last in Malibu. And I was like, that just blew my mind. I was like, you can do that. That's an option. You can just give up the stuff. And like obviously seeing that I don't need to get all that stuff to be happy. Like obviously he realized that and I can also follow that same path. But it didn't totally kind of settle into my psyche. It wasn't something that I fully accepted in the moment. It took like a year of really looking into it and really thinking about it more and trying to get out of debt and doing all the things that I had wanted to do in order to like be quote unquote successful. But the same thing like I graduated with a hundred thousand dollars in student loan debt and like yes, it's stressful. Yeah, like it's I can't tell you like what I what it feels like to have that kind of weight on your shoulders. But most days now I feel the same as I did when I was that like then in terms of my happiness like I like you said if you're grateful for what you have at any given point in time. I feel like you're going to feel the same way and you're not going to feel that way as long as you're making your your the ends meet because obviously it can be very stressful if you're if you're not. Absolutely yeah that's kind of step one yeah make sure your ends are meeting yeah you said something before about like people that are really good. Or they don't have to beat the best in order to be noticed in order for people to. Actually like your content or for you to actually be able to make a living doing that and I feel like in a lot of ways that's like what inspires me because when you see people that just you're like I could do that. Like there and that's like kind of how it got into podcasting where there was podcasts I listened to that I love but I'm like I would do it a little bit differently like that's a good podcast, but it's I could do it better think I can do it better. And that's even with documentaries is like I think good do that better when you start doing you're like okay it actually is very challenging this is very difficult there's a lot that I didn't realize that goes into these things because sometimes from the outside it just everything seems obvious. But yeah I'm curious to how are you inspired because I guess you could be inspired by two ways either inspired because people are so bad or be inspired because people are so good and how do you find inspiration in that way. Yeah it's a really it's an interesting question and interesting way of thinking about it because I think I am. I'm not necessarily inspired by either per se I'm more inspired when I remember that other people aren't like the other people have their own flaws in the way that they they'd create so maybe the maybe the first one maybe more like I'm inspired because I'm like oh well even if we perceive their work as perfect. I know any creative people or if I even look at someone's creativity over a certain period of time they're going to be things about it that couldn't prove and knowing that and kind of giving excuse me. And knowing that and kind of giving myself permission to not be perfect. I'm not a perfectionist at all like I'm literally very like okay cool for good next next thing like I'm always moving ahead always moving ahead and I think that for me that I'm grateful I'm not a perfectionist because I'm around a lot of them a lot of the time and sometimes I'm like. You guys could be so much more productive you just let go a little earlier because then the percentage that something improves when you sit and chew on it for that extra 12 hours is like less than 1% and it's not that that like half a percentage isn't even noticeable by it by the people who are consuming what you're creating because they're not just sitting with it staring at it like you are an obsessing if you're you know if you're. I'm a perfectionist where as if you just let it go and kind of put it out and just let people respond to it I think we can also grow from feedback so even if something isn't great. Even if something isn't perfect because it never will be that's the secret the secret is you can sit and. fix it until every single piece is in place and think for it for like an 8th of a second that it's perfect then you put it out there and you're going to be like oh. I wish I had changed that sir I knew that wasn't right and it's never perfect so believing that you can get there is what slows people down and so I'm just more like put it out there move on to the next thing put it out there you'll learn you'll be like oh I would have done that differently cool. Now you're already making something new that you can apply that lesson to if you just sit on the same note for your whole life you kind of limit your limiting yourself and everyone else who gets to consume what you make does that make any sense. I 100% agree I wonder if it's different for people who are just starting out because say you're just starting out and I'm talking about people who are learning a craft so if you pick up a camera for the first time and start shooting photos. You don't know that much about the crafts so you're just trying to learn like how to set exposure how to color correct how to edit how to crop all these different things that you have to learn. And there's like a thousand thousands of tiny details and when you're trying to learn an application and going through each of the tabs and trying to figure out where everything is. I think it takes a lot of time and so I wonder if it's actually okay it's probably not I don't know like you you tell me but it might be okay to spend a little bit extra time when you're just getting started out like tweaking photos and actually just understanding that that's a process of learning. The same time you got to get past that photo to get to the next and you're probably going to learn more by working on your 100th photo then working on that won't one photo a hundred times. Right right and I think yeah I mean when you're learning something new there is going to be a process to it so I'm not being an advocate for being sloppy y'all do not be sloppy. Right you have to put out good shit yeah like don't put out crap no you got to use your gut and you're like but also there is good enough. You get like a lot of people talk about the 80 20 principle so you get 80% done and you're like that's close enough that's gonna be good because also man I don't know about you but I look back at my work from two years ago. It's always two years I don't know why and I'm like that's garbage like that is the worst why did I can't believe client clients pay me for some of the videos that I've made I'm like did they actually get value from that did that actually help their business. In any way it's tough sometimes to look back at it. Yeah but you know 98.7% is still in a so wow that's my yeah yeah and just keep moving forward I mean you're so right and that you just have to just focus on the next project because even if you hated that last one. I think that's what we were trying to do is that we realize that like we can get better you're like oh I learned so much from that last project I can bring that into the next one. Yeah and you're not frustrated because you've been sitting with something that feels stale and old it's kind of like it's kind of like if a woman let's just let's just take it to for instance. Take it to babies for a minute let's say a woman's pregnant and she hits 40 weeks and she's like I'm not done give me another minute and she wants to keep the baby longer and longer and longer. Like that starts hurting her body because the baby's like too big and it's like come on let the baby fly not fly but you know free and the baby can't start to get to know it's life and actually kind of. Be it's own being outside of that space so it's kind of that that same idea of like let your creativity. Actually be born into the world let other people interact with it let them be like oh it's cute or like oh it's kind of weird looking and let other people start interacting so that whatever you're creating can take on its own. Persona so that people can be like let's say with your podcast instead of you sitting with it for like three years and being like I'm going to make sure I'm the best podcast. And then born instead of being like that and if you just sat in your room by yourself for three years and just like you know research every every single like Mike you could get every single light you could get for your videos if you just sat on it for three years and then you released it everyone would be like. Did you just did you just put like a three year old into the world like what just happened what is this like where did this come from. But when you put it out as an imperfect little being suddenly everyone can grow with it and get to know it as it grows so that there's more of that like developmental it sort of just there's more of a. Loyal fan base because they're like I remember when he was a baby instead of it being is this and I'm making some very straight. That was a weird metaphor was a weird metaphor I'm not going to lie but but like the idea is amazing I mean the idea it connects me 100% because when I was starting the podcast I kind of had this idea. I was like oh I should just record 10 episodes I should and like this is advice that I've heard from other people where it's like oh you're going to start something. You really want to be consistent with it and you don't be overwhelmed so people say like just whatever you're making if you want to release it consistently make 10 of them and then you can really some every week and then. Give you time to make other stuff I did not do that like I just recorded a story it was a story about the first time I oh I shot a reality show with e I was just a cam up and then I forgot to hit record. It was a bad day it was a bad day for me yeah I did the only thing I was supposed to do which is hit record and then it was this crazy pivotal scene where. This woman was going kind of crazy yelling about like this talent show that her daughter was in and she was just losing her mind and then I forgot to hit record. The producer in my ear was like that's perfect cut wrap we're done and then I was like oh my god it was I didn't remember. And then I was just to to timid whatever it was to ashamed that I decided not to tell them and so I never worked with them again. But I like it was just to let other people know and other creatives know that like this shit happens like bad stuff happens when you're making and putting yourself out there in a way that you can fail and there will be a lot of failures along the way. And a lot of times we don't there's no platform to talk about those things you know sometimes people write about them in Facebook posts but like a lot of times you generally just put your best stuff out there into the world. So it's nice to be able to to share that so I posted it put it out there and then I was like all right well what am I going to do for next week and then it kind of was a scramble and I wasn't that consistent for the first six months maybe the first four months. But then things started to connect and I started to pick up the pieces and now I'm like we're have a lot recorded because I really love doing it so like some weeks or record five episodes and then you know I'll have. Like right now I probably have like eight to ten episodes like already like lined up and ready to go which is just it is it is nice now but I would say to get started you don't need to do that just get going. And then like you said you learn along the way like I didn't release that first episode and then start making and putting out there and never would have like the podcast wouldn't be what it is today right and you wouldn't learn from getting those those pointers from your audience. So the moral is don't sit in a room with a three year old baby. I was going to say give birth give birth that's going to be the name of this podcast. I'm going to write that down. No I don't know give birth to your creativity. Yeah. No my no the name is 98.7% isn't it. Wow 98. I don't know that's weird. I don't think that's like it's like it's like really good but it's not catchy. It's maybe you can't put like a number 98.7 into the title of the video. Although what do I know? No. Maybe that could be the recipe. Okay all right the recipe is 98.7%. 98.7%. Yeah. Did you hear the refrigerator just turned off and it's nice and quiet which is great. I just I found out today that you have an Australian husband. I do. Which is amazing because I have an Australian girlfriend. No way. Yeah we should start a club or something. We should. She from Sydney. Nice. Yeah where's your husband from? Melbourne. Would you say Melbourne? I do. You don't that's not what you have to say Melbourne. No I know because if I did I probably wouldn't still be married. Oh really? No I lived there for two and a bit years. I still go back every year and I love it. A little bit. How is your Australian accent? It's good when I'm around it. I can easily do it. But you know Australian girls talk very differently though. American girls and it's very yeah it's when I have it in my ear. I can do it really really well but it's very difficult to do a good Australian accent. It's tough. Yeah what do I do? Everybody does the British accent when they meet her. Yeah. Yeah. And she's like I'm not British. Yeah. That's like the most common thing. My Australian accent's terrible. But you live there for two and a half years. So I feel like you pick it up better that way when you're around it all the time. Natalie she starts to lose her accent. I mean it just becomes softer. How long has she lived in? That's three and a half years. Oh whoa. That's short. She's been here for ten and he's very committed to his accent. He will not practice. Oh my word. He would be so mad. Like one time he said data the other day and I went. And I went. Babe. And he was like. And he was really upset because it's data and he was. He actually was like okay I gotta make sure I don't let. Let myself leave because it's very very. Patriotic which is unusual for Australians to be so patriotic but I think because he's not there. He misses it and loves it. I think that's what happens when they come to America. Especially being around all like the American pride and being around that culture. They're like they have to try to get on top of it and not lose it. Right. I pick up what I like I don't pick up any of the accent but I do pick up some of the words. They have a lot of words. They do like good ones. Yeah. What do you pick up? Yeah. Like I let's sus it out which is like look into it. Yeah. I'm trying to think do you know any others? Oh man. I forget which ones are even Australian anymore because they've just been a part of my vocabulary for so many years. Because we've been together for like 13 years. Okay. So they're just like in my brain. So integrated. Yeah. I can't remember which is which. But yeah. I mean so many like I'll say like oh they're having a patch for like a kiss. Oh I've never heard that. Yeah. Like a patching. They're patching. Like having a patching. Yeah, a patching. A passionate kiss. They're patching or like I mean I say I say doozy a lot which isn't really that like most Americans know what that is. But I just like all that's doozy. So it's a soaky la la. I don't know if that is that a thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's like a whiner. Yeah. She says that a lot to me apparently. It's always with the soak. That's awesome. You work with your husband. And that's a that's a thing that I couldn't ever do. That's. It's a thing. It's a thing for sure. It's it's own. It's like a separate relationship that you have to have to work on. So it's almost like it's almost like if you're working with someone and you're married to someone and then you have both of those dynamics and all of the relational elements of both of those relationships that you have to consider but then they're in the same person. So you don't ever get a you don't ever get a break. So you can't ever be like hang on like let's just put work on hold and then put on our relationship. But then it's like your brain remembers that you just spent the whole day with that person that they were frustrating. And so then instead of being like, oh it's so good to see you. How is your day? It's like. Okay. It's you again. And I have to tell my brain that now we're just going to have fun and not think about the stressful work in. We're going to sit and watch Netflix and have so much fun together. Yeah. It probably takes a little bit extra work to make it work. You guys both work from home. We have a studio space in at water. So that's where we're working out of right now, which is really nice because we used to work out of our we have a spare bedroom. And that was sort of our workspace for a while. And it is nice to have things more separate. I will say and a lot of times we're working on location for different shoots. And we travel a lot. So we try to keep work at our actual home to a minimal because it's minimum minimum. Not a minimal. Not a minimal. Sorry guys. Minimum. You blew it. A boy. I don't know my words. Yeah. But we try to not just be, you know, for sure, for sure the boundary is like no working in bed. Because that's just weird to me. It's like it's just I don't know. There's too much in measurement there if it's like no. There has to be something sacred. Otherwise it's like you're working everywhere together. You're trying to be married and enjoy this totally different separate thing. All in one space and your brain just can't. Like your brain can't be like, oh, here's segment one, here's segment two. And it's all happening in the same same space. Yeah. I try to do the no phones in bed rule. I mean, I like personally can do it just fine. And I generally don't do phones in bed for myself. But she does do phone in bed, which is like I just got to give it to her. Because a lot of times I mean, she'll be working all day. She'll come home. We'll hang out. We'll have dinner and we'll spend time together. Or maybe watch show. And then she doesn't get a lot of time to kind of catch up with her friends in Australia, London. And also she has her own life too. It's like a bat, you know, a balance where you're like, I would prefer not to do phones in bed. But like if that's what she wants to do. You kind of have to give in sometimes. But I actually do like working from from home. Yeah. I've had a studio space. I worked out of a wee work before both were decent experiences. The studio was tough because I worked by myself. And I didn't need a space to shoot. So I just seemed like useless in terms of the kitchen. And there was just a lot of stuff that was wrong about it. There was challenging. Because the thing I love about working from home is like my diet is so much better. Because I can just head to the kitchen and all my food is here. Yeah. Less planning, less prep. I don't have to pack a lunch. But obviously then the downside is that you are working. You're like sometimes I don't leave the house. You ever do that where you're like, I haven't seen this sun today. I've been just working all day. For sure. Yeah. But that's like it's going down side. You like working from a studio. Yeah. I think it's we've had the studio for over two years now. And for a while we were renting it out a lot. We didn't have access to it. And you know that was there was a plus side to that. Obviously you're making an additional income by renting out your space. But then we started to say, well, isn't there some value in us using it for why we actually created it, which is for us to have a separate space to work in. That's different from where we're just like eating and hanging out as a family. And so we sort of took it back. From not from anyone other than just the rental space of being like, nah, it's ours. Like I want to put my desk there. I want to actually get to use it. And so I really like, I really like it because I think I'm more intentional about focus. So it's like instead of starting my day with like, you know, a coffee. And then I check my phone and then I'm on Instagram for a minute. And then I check Twitter. And then I get sad about what the president tweeted. You know, that whole thing. And then I open my email and then I start to do that. And then a couple hours later, I check my email again. And it's kind of this sort of everything's bleeding into everything. And instead it's more like, okay, I'm at the studio. I'm emailing for an hour. I'm going to edit for an hour. And then I can go. Like I don't need to just kind of have things just be one messy day of kind of work kind of life. It's more like, no, I'm focused. I'm intentional. I'm doing this. Now I'm done. Now I can go. And I like that a lot. It sounds like most days you try to have a structure to your days where you you plan it out. Like what you said where. I mean, I've definitely fallen into the trap of just checking email all day mindlessly. Or it's essentially a form of procrastination where I'm like somebody give me something to do. Because I don't want to work on the work I'm supposed to be doing. Absolutely. But do you generally block it like that where you're like. I think most days look different. You know, most some days I'm recording a podcast and news. I'm shooting some news. I'm editing some days. It's everything. Every day looks so different that I try to have thought through the day before it happens and at least block it out just for that day. But it's not like there's ever a schedule that I'm in that's like a routine. The only thing I've ever been able to create for myself that's routine is working out three times a week, which has been so supportive for my own mental health and just feeling good and being happy. Because I think I've discovered that just being in my body is something that's really, it's kind of like its own medicine. And I think when I'm shooting or when I'm on my phone or my computer and I'm just kind of sitting there. Like we have these amazing bodies and if we don't use them then they kind of go to waste. And it's it's been cool to just like do more yoga or like go do some cycling classes and just be like oh this this body can actually do really cool stuff and it's here for me. To actually use and to be in relationship with where I can we can I can give it something it can give me something. And so that's been rad. But that's the only thing that I'm like even when I'm traveling. Don't touch my workouts. Yeah, that's I find that I need to have rules like that as well where especially with my workouts. And I do it for other parts of my life as well. But with the workouts my rule is don't miss two days in a row. So I find that when I miss two days in a row it's more than likely I'm going to skip the third day as well. And then I'll just fall because everybody everybody goes that experience where they're whether it's January 1st and you're trying to get into a new workout routine or just you're generally inspired in the moment. I start working out and then next thing you know it's like three months later and you're like what like how did that why didn't that stick why didn't that work out routine keep going. And I found for me it's it's make sure I just go like I don't miss two days in a row and then generally the workout routine keeps. I have recently couldn't have been able to go the gym for the past three weeks because I got salmonella poison in over the holiday. Yeah, it was it was actually back east. Literally it was Christmas Eve when the symptoms kicked in I was up the entire night like back and forth to the back from every hour. Like near vomiting the entire time it was it was really bad like I was just for two to three. I've never ever had food poisoning before. Yeah and actually this is really really weird but it was on Christmas Eve. No way it wasn't this past. No it was like two thousand five or six Christmas Eve and I got salmonella and I I feel you. Oh my god. It was the worst worst worst. How long did it last? Well it lasted like two days and then I had it was an Australian and I had a friend that does like. Um pressure point sort of it's like it's kind of like a form of kinesiology but um she came over and she cleared my body of like the allergy. So she basically used pressure points to be like hey that thing that's upsetting. You don't let it upset you anymore and that literally changed your life like that. It was like over no way. It did. That's not even why. It was like two days in and all of a sudden she like came to the thing and then boom no not another symptom. I was like that's incredible. How's it made? Because that is like it's it's very obvious to know when the the poisoning has left in the bacteria. You have left your body. Your body feels differently. I'm the complete idiot but this is my first time getting food poisoning. And starting to feel like I actually lasted a good week. Yeah it was a really long time of just really bad symptoms. I started to get a little bit better. I want to say right when I got back to LA you're gonna laugh at me and the doctor laughed at me as well. They were I heard the dot I told like the one nurse and then he went out and was talking to the doctor. And I heard like the door was right there and I just heard him laughing at me. I was like you got this is unprofessional. I feel like you guys should be in the silent room. Everybody's here in this story. But I'm tweeting it. Yeah exactly. When I got back I the first thing I did and I was still suffering a little bit but I felt I felt a little bit better. So I was like all right I got to look at cocky and I got a burrito from Chipotle. That's what I said. Why would you do that? They just had like the whole e-coli thing. So it was a pretty big steak burrito with the cheese and sour cream and medium salsa. How does that sound right now? It's I mean right now I'm actually today's my second day of actually feeling decent and on antibiotics. So I feel pretty good. I absolutely wouldn't do it again. It's gonna be a month or two maybe a year. It's like Chipotle again. No but it was right back to square one with my symptoms and I was just feeling shitty. Just in bed all day. But less some learned less some learned. Oh yeah. That sucks. Why did that come up? Where were you talking about? I think we're talking. Oh just how like I haven't been able to work out because I've just been so. Oh yeah. Yeah. But I'm excited to get back into it because I've been doing the hiking a lot. How do you do much hiking around here? That's pretty good. That's like one of the best parts of living in LA versus New York. Everybody. I'm now one of those people. The first New York sucks. Yeah. But it does. Why did you leave? Well besides your girlfriend being close to her. It was mostly the Australia thing. A little bit of the weather. But it was the fact that we were getting serious. And we're like all right well we need to start talking about settling down and creating a home and that's likely it's definitely not going to be in New York. And I said how about New Jersey? And she said I didn't move halfway across the world to live in New Jersey. So New Jersey wasn't. My mom's going to be upset if she hears this. But so we decided on LA just kind of came up spontaneously from the idea. Like it was three months and then we moved here. Wow. But you said your sister is here right? Yeah. My sister lives in Silver Lake. So yeah. I had family here. My cousin lives here as well. So it wasn't as. That's nice. You're not like you don't know zero people. Yeah. Yeah. A couple people. Are you from LA? No. I grew up in Milwaukee. Right. Which is. So I'm the oldest of six kids. What? I'm the third of seven. What? Yeah. Getting some vanilla. Pretty much the same amount of siblings. Okay. In another dimension. Yeah. We've been in friends. Yeah. We're like best friends now. Yeah. Growing up with a big family. Yeah. It's certainly a thing. How many of you guys are creatives? My sister. She is a podcaster. Breathwork teacher. She's like a graphic designer. My brother. He's like entrepreneurial. At heart. He works for a startup company. My sister. My other. My younger sister. Megan. Is it painter? And then Madison. Morgan. Are in. Wait. Are you all. Yeah. What are they? Yeah. I went through some of them. I can go through all of them. But from the beginning. I found the beginning. So my dad. Mark and Mary. That's where it all started. Yeah. Isn't it so corny? No. I'm always so embarrassed. No. I'm the one with the eliterated businesses. That's true. Okay. Yeah. So keep going. Same thing. And then some shell. Is my older sister. Mark. My older brother. And then Matt. And then Megan. Who we went through. Mike. He's actually going to be in the Air Force. He's going to be a pilot. Which I think is the most badass thing ever. Like he found out that he was going to be a pilot in the Air Force. The same exact day that I started a YouTube channel. So I was like, all right. My cool. Wait a one up. That's pretty dope. You're like, hey, mom and dad. I'm up. Yeah. I'm trying to ring that in at some point, though. And get into one of these fighter jets. But he's still young. He's still kind of going through the program. And then we have Morgan, who's she's, you know, probably going to be a veterinarian or a nurse or along those lines. Because the younger ones are still in high school. And Matt is in. She's like, she doesn't know what she wants to do yet. But she's like, she's very funny. She's like, like, very much like a dry wit. And she's like, got like a. She's starting to build this little meme account on Instagram. Yeah. It's funny. It's great to have younger siblings. Because then I like I'm so disconnected with what people are doing. But it turns out people have three, four Instagram accounts. And they have meme accounts and hidden accounts. And hidden accounts. What's a finster? Finster. It's like, it's all the kids are doing. Oh, they do in finsters. Yeah. It's a fake, it's like a, like an alter ego fake Instagram account. So that you can post stuff or like people's stuff. But it's not like your, your name or your face. It's like a fake fake. And then there's some that they do where they just have just for friends. Where it's like you post really intimate things that you would. And like really unflattering photos of yourself. Mm-hmm. It's really interesting to see you. It's really interesting. I think the, yeah. I like having younger siblings too. Obviously I have five of them. But I really like checking in with like, you know, what's cool these days. I do that a lot. My sister told like introduced me to you to a couple of years ago. Because I was like, wait. YouTube isn't just where you watch photos of like the Beatles or like videos for of them and their old performances. Like there's an actual thing here. And she was like, yeah. And then she, I remember getting a text from Mark. She freaked out one of her favorite YouTubers rented our studio space for a day and posted videos on YouTube from our studio space. And she was like, oh, she was at your space. And I was like, I didn't even know who she was. Like she just rented my space. I didn't know. So that was really funny. I didn't, I still don't know who she is. I can't like she's a bug girl. Yeah, I keep trying to like all send my younger sisters text and like, hey, do you know this person? Like they were on a Disney show. They're like, we don't watch that. I'm like, damn it. Like I really want to be cool. And I need to, I think I need to get Bieber. I got to get somebody. Yeah. Like that's the only way I'm going to earn their respect. And doesn't he go to like Hillsong or something? You can probably just start going to Hillsong. It's a church. I think then it's like that cool church that he goes to. I don't know. I read about it. He goes to this Russian bath house that I go to. Or in the corner here. Is that, was that something weird? Or I don't know. I wasn't expecting that reaction. Who was that expecting to say he goes to a Russian bath house? Yeah, you know it's funny. I call it a Russian bath house. It's a spa. It's a spa. I mean, mostly right. It's a spa that Russians go to. How, how do you know? My friend, my friend Josh ran into like he saw him there. Is it a new spa? It's not a new spa. Unfortunately. I'm going to see some Bieber dick. He gets like, well, the Korean spies are all very. He's weird. I wouldn't do that. I don't think I felt comfortable. Actually, I did in Mexico once. Oh, how to go. I don't think it was a naked spa. Oh, like the guy spoke broken English. And then I misinterpreted what he was saying. Yes, it's naked. So then I get in the hot tub naked. I was like, people walking around me. I'm like, Oh, God. I'm going to look at the naked in here. It's really embarrassing. That is amazing. That's like, we were getting, we were getting, we were getting, we were getting massage as a Nepal a few years ago. And we would just finish like this massive 10 day trek in the Himalayas. And we were like, let's get massage. This is a great idea. And we were like, how do we make sure that they're not wanting them to be something else? And so we asked for a couple's massage. And we were like, oh, then it'll be obvious. And so we're like in the room together and we're both getting, we're both getting the massage. And the woman that was massaging my husband Jayden was, she was like, she was like penis. Like towards the end. And we were like, we were like, oh, no, no, no, no. And she was like, she was like penis. And she just kept. And we were like, we're like, looking at each other. And the opposite tables are like, no, no. It's okay. It's okay. And then the woman that was rubbing me was like, no, no, no, no, penis. And I was like, oh, I think she's done. I think she's. Oh, no. I think she's telling every she's done. Or maybe that's her best cover or best alibi of all time. But she was just like, no, no, penis. So I was like, oh, she's done. We're good. Wow. Oh, my God. What if the answer was yes? I mean, girls over. And then, you know how many people? And she's like, oh, we're doing sir. No, Phoenix. Wow. Wow. That's really good. We're laughing so hard. Beware of that. Oh. In Nepal, it sounds like penis. But it's finished. I've heard sometimes, though, that that's pretty common. No. Yeah. That's a thing. Some countries. Yeah. More common than here. It happens here. But you have to know the code word going in. I think. Oh, yeah. You got another. I don't really know. I just sang this from movies. I've seen. I know. I definitely don't have personal experience doing it. For the record, anybody's wondering. I don't know. One of my friends was one of the messages. So I've asked her some questions. Yes. Really? She was the, she was the giver of the message. Wow. So I've asked her some questions. I need answers. No. I'm really curious about how that, how one gets into that line of work. I think it's like, it's sort of, you need money. And if you're a good massage therapist, and then you realize that, oh, the money jump is quite large. If there's a certain willingness to do certain things. And she was. And so it was like, it wasn't anything weird. It was more just like, oh, this is great money. Yeah. That was her, her reason. Was it like, was it a, is it a sanctioned by the massage place? Or is that like? I don't know. No. No. No. It's usually they, they are involved. I would think so. Yeah. That would be pretty bold move. There was a big thing. I think recently was it like massage envy. I think it's in the middle of a really big lawsuit because a lot of, there were people that came forward, you know, and last, at the end of last year when there were a lot of people speaking out about sexual abuse and assault, a lot of people said, oh, I got taken advantage of it when I was getting massage. So I think it's, it's a weird line right now because there's a lot of, like, there's a lot of things like massage where it's like, I'm inviting this person to touch my body. And I want them to. But then it's like, where's, how do you make sure that communication has been clear enough that if someone feels uncomfortable, they can say like, no, no, not that, but not too late and not, I don't know. It's a weird. I'm ready for someone to come out with really clear kind of language that everyone can align to so that everyone can be like, oh, that's how we communicate that and do it well. Because I think even a guy was asking me just last week, like, as girls, like, how do we communicate and make sure that we're on the same page when it comes to consent? And I think that's a really tough one because it's like, sometimes you don't want to ruin a moment and be like, okay, hang on, wait a second. Can you please sign here? Yeah, yeah, like it's just like, but you also don't want to not ask and kind of be like, oh, wait. Oh, oops, I crossed the line. So, is it, is it pretty intuitive? I mean, I would say so and I think you would say so, but there are, I mean, like alcohol blurs the line. I think that's probably the biggest thing. And I think anybody who's consuming alcohol and like personally, I've never been one to be so far out of control that I would not, that I would take advantage of somebody, right? Like, I just, maybe some people can get like, I know friends that black out, right? Yeah. And they don't remember a thing. That's never happened to me. But, yeah, I just, I, I could see where like, you would just be very cautious if you're, if you're drinking. Yeah, but I think some people would be like, I am being cautious because, you know, they're drinking and they're not being aware. So, I think it, yeah, alcohol definitely, especially with so many of the stories that have been coming out lately, alcohol is so often involved that it's kind of like, oh, that's, that's definitely a great area. And if you, if you have a problem drinking and not being in, in good relationship with what you're actually coming off, then maybe, maybe we should just stop drinking so much. Sober, pretty clear. Pretty clear. Pretty clear. Pretty clear. Yeah. It's a, no. Okay. No means no. Right. It's, it's a, it's a very interesting line. Yeah, it's an interesting time and I'm really glad it's coming up as much as it's causing obviously like PTSD for a lot of victims of abuse and there's a lot coming up that from people that haven't felt safe to talk about things for years and they're having, you know, a lot of really genuine stuff come up that they need to work through and, and also talk about, but it's, I do hope that there is a shift just in our culture of, this is how we talk about it. This is how we communicate when what we're okay with. And having there be less kind of just like, I think shame attached to it so that people don't talk as really as they should. You can see why some people wouldn't want to talk about this stuff. And it's like, it's obvious. And like, that's why it's nice. I mean, do like the first person that, that does one of these things. The first person that makes an allegation against one of these people is the bravest because they could just destroy their reputation. People could just not listen to them, ignore them. And then, but it gives people more courage, others to come out. It's just crazy. Like, 2017 was a crazy year. In terms of like, the names and the high profile people that were essentially brought down by these things. And it's great. That's okay. Like, fuck those people. Because nobody gives a shit about those people. Like, you could, doesn't matter how talented you are, how skilled you are. If you're a shitty person, people aren't going to care. People aren't going to support you. Yeah, it'll be really interesting to see what happens. I wonder if if people like Kevin's base he will ever be able to act again, or if they should be able to act again. If they'll just be cast as all of the villain roles. Yeah, like, what's going to happen to him? It's very interesting. Damn. Like, I even feel, I feel weird finishing house at guards. Right? You're like shit. Man, you really mean. It is, but it is a bummer. Like, I love so many shows. And movies that have him in it. And I mean, even like, baby driver was like, one of the really good ones of last year. And when I think about it, no, like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, everything is ruined. Maybe we can just, I think we can probably separate. Yeah. You got it. Suspension. You can't support him now. But still, but also, you think about everybody else. I was a part of that. And like, I think that would really be for like the director of baby driver, every other actor that was in it. It's like, Dan, like, they put everything they had into this piece. And then they were affiliated with Kevin Spacey. So now what can enjoy it? Did you hear about the movie that had just been finished that had him in it? And the director decided to postpone the release date and reshoot all the scenes that had him in it with a different actor. Did you hear about that? Yeah. And that was the him? I know. I know. I want to say it was JJ Abrams. But I'm probably making that up. But it was someone I want to say it was him. Anyway, the other people that were in it all co-operated. And we're like, absolutely, we'll do whatever we have to. Like, we'll reshoot. We'll come back in. We are totally in agreement with this decision. Yeah. The director, the studio. Like, that's not a simple thing to do. No. So that's that's pretty great. At the same time, it's a little bit smart because as a marketing movie, if you release a movie, that's like a recent reason. It's true. It's probably not all like just to be good. Just to be a good person. It's also like, I don't know, my art to fail. Yeah, yeah, it's a little selfish maybe. Yeah. Yeah. We'll see where this goes. This is going to be an interesting year. I know. So I'm curious how you got into photography to begin with. And like, how did you build your business? Well, let's see. I got my first camera when I was probably like 12. My family traveled a lot. We did a lot of road trips with all the kids in one minivan. It was really fun. Anyway, it was. And so I got a camera back then. I shot film. I just, I liked it. It was fun. And like photography always really mattered to me. But to me, I was also really sensitive about it because it was like the thing that every girl said they wanted to do. Like every girl was like, I'm going to be a photographer when I grow up. And I was like, oh, that's so gross. And so I was very kind of protective of it as this thing that I just did for fun. It was just for fun. I didn't want to be a photographer. I just did it for fun. And then it actually wasn't until. So then I met my husband. And he was also a photographer. He shot a lot in his, he was, we were both first musicians. That was like our main source of income. And so he was touring as a guitarist when we met. And he would shoot when he was on tour. And he would do a lot of, you know, his own film stuff. And then when we got married, we bought each other a digital camera. We're just like a million years ago. And it really wasn't until that point that he was like, you know, it's not all bad to like be good at photography. And it's not all bad to let people, you know, pay you to be creative and to take photos of them. If that's something that we or you want to do. And I was like, okay, it feels really cliche, but whatever. I always really want to be original. Yeah. It's really hard for me. It's impossible. But you can be an astronaut photographer. And then you'll be like the first. We do say we want to go to the moon. Yeah. We're both very like we will. We will. We will. I mean, you've been to every continent. So it makes sense. It makes sense. We want a photograph of wedding on the moon. Yeah. Yeah. So, so basically we, when I moved to Australia, we got, I started a blog, which was like really early early 2006. I think. So it was long enough ago that I was like, That's like when blogs started. I know, but it was a shitty blog. But they were all over bad. Yeah. But I wasn't trying. I was also like, oh, everyone's starting a blog. So I don't want to start a blog. This was just like me keeping up with my friends and family in the state. So they could see what we were up to. It was like before Facebook and Instagram. So Facebook was just becoming a thing. And like normal people started to get access to it at like end of 2006, 2007. Yeah. That was, I think, when YouTube started, it was 2006. Like a long time ago. That's like when the internet started. I know. Can you imagine before YouTube? Uh, yeah. I can't. And it was insane. It's so crazy that there are people that are alive now that don't remember life before like iPhones and stuff. Because, I mean, I was an adult before iPhone. So they're so new. And yet even now, if you pulled it away from me, my whole life would have to change. Yeah. You're like, oh, shit. I'm going to throw everything. Everything would be different. Wow. So anyway. So then I started a blog that was just like, hey, this is what we're up to. And then people started saying, oh, my gosh. Like my phone. I was going to pay you to take photos. And of course, I was like, that's kind of weird. And I, you know, I didn't say yes right away. And but then Jayden was like, actually, do you know the competition that's out there? Look at all in meals. Do you know what all in meals is? Mm-hmm. Oh, my gosh. In the Midwest, it was this place. I think it's closed. But it was a place kind of like Sears portraits. We're like, you went in and sat on like a really weird fabric backdrop. And there was like terrible lighting. And sometimes double exposure where like your face was in the corner. Oh, my God. It was real bad. It was bad. That's how they did back then. I know. My family and I would go and get a portrait once a year. Yeah. We'd have these family photos. Can I do it anymore? No. They don't. But I think they're starting to do more of like what we do, which is more on location. Like in your home having a photographer come to your house and like shoot you where you live. Yeah. Like on a picnic basket. Right. Which is super normal. Yeah. Totally normal. Just casually sitting on a picnic basket. But Jayden saw all those photos in Wisconsin. When we would visit people's houses and he'd be like literally the competition is so different to what we do. Maybe this is a thing. And so then we started saying yes and started just shooting. And that was really when social media was taking off so so quickly. And so we would upload like a shoot and we'd post a few photos on Facebook. And then like we would get like five shoots just from that because people would be like, oh my gosh. This is cool and different. So we've actually been shooting for probably. Well, if I'm good at math, which I'm not more than 10 years. But as a business, we've probably been going for eight and a half. And it's evolved a lot. We started with real people, weddings, things like that just saying yes to whatever people asked for. And we did like business headshots and we did so many different weird things. In the beginning and then it evolved into more clear. Okay, this is what we shoot, this is what we charge, this is what we like. And now the people that we work with are always just like really good fits for us because they've seen our work and connected with it and they trust us. And then we get to create for them. And there's a very long answer to your question. Yes, so your client base, it seems like it kind of filters itself for the most part. You probably say no to a bit. It's probably some like I don't know. I'm curious like how often you're saying no to clients that just aren't a fit or you got a bad vibe. We're like yes, sorry, we're not the people for you. Yeah, um, I, how often is it is difficult. I probably, I don't know, probably once a week usually it just has to do with either the brand, if they want us to create content for them. Usually we will, but sometimes it's like they want me to post as on like my Instagram account and sometimes it's like a brand that I would just never. I would never spend money on, I would never work with. So it feels really an authentic for me to be like sure, I'll take your money to say that I like your stuff, which I totally don't. I, I still want to be, um, excited about what I'm doing and who I'm working with. So I think when it comes to that, um, I probably say no once a week and we probably, like even when we work with. With couples, like real people, we always Skype with them before. And we either, we either, either one of us sign a contract because we want them to get a chance to like vibe with us or not. And vice versa. And that way we can be like, oh cool, they were awesome. We're great. And now we can all start to be friends and hang out and it'll be fun to shoot you or it's like, oh, our personalities are so different. And it's not personal, but maybe this is a better fit for where you're looking for. I mean, and like, your clients are what your business becomes. And if you're, like, say, if you're doing weddings and you don't like doing weddings or like there's, you know, certain corporate business videos that you could drag into because it pays well. Like you said in the beginning, say yes to all those things and you give better at your craft, but eventually you need to make sure that you're working with people that you actually like being around. Yeah, but it's kind of like you learn that through. It's kind of going back to the weird, my weird story about the three-year-old baby. It's like if you just wait until the very perfect client comes to your door and asks to work with you, it will never happen. You have to get out there. You have to be making mistakes, working with clients that you don't really like working with and then being like, oh, now I know what not to do. Or you have to be working with your ideal client because then you can at least show what you're capable of. You have maybe for less money than what you're worth, but at least getting it out there. You have to start somewhere. You have to enter the world as that little baby that is going to learn how to walk and figure out what the heck they're doing and what their name is and how to say it and how people interact with them. And if they never do that, then you're never going to, like your ideal client is never going to knock on your door and be like, hey, we want to work with you. If you're not putting yourself out there. What advice would you give to people who are just starting out in that world where maybe I would say most people are probably trying to transition from a full-time job to doing something more creative, something that's more in line with their passions. How do you go about making that transition? I think a couple things, one, spend as much time working on yourself as you're working on whatever it is that you're creating. So the more I sit and worry about the stupid things that I do in my personal life and in my relationships, when I work on that, it affects my art and makes it better and makes me a better communicator with potential clients. So spend as much time working on yourself as your craft. But also I think that three year idea of needing to work on something for three years so that you can get a sense of what it is, what it's going to be like, how you need to be to make it succeed. I think for me and for Jaden when we were starting out we had other jobs for gosh, like the first at least three years. Because it's kind of too much pressure to put on something brand new when there are going to be days where you're totally burned out exhausted bummed out want to give up. Maybe those days weeks sometimes even months, it's going to be slow seasons and it's too much pressure to put on like a tiny baby. And so you need to like give, give their, you need to give kind of like oxygen to the fire so that it can actually grow. So I would say it's going to be like three years of all in and it's going to feel irrational and crazy and you're going to feel crazy and you're going to fail. And they're going to be so many days that you're going to want to quit, but the difference between you and the people who will never get what they want is that you're not going to quit. And that's the only difference literally. The people who are getting acknowledged, the people who are winning Oscars, the people who are winning Grammys, they have shitty days, they want to give up. They have seasons where they're not inspired, they have seasons where they have zero dollars. The only difference is that they never give up. The only difference is that they keep doing it, whether they're being acknowledged or not, whether they're getting paid or not. I mean, even the other day I was super freaked out on Facebook, one of my Facebook friends posted that she got an acknowledgement is like one of the top. I won't say what industry she's in, but she got like one of the very top, you know, like she got celebrated for being one of the best in the world. And not even a year ago, she was posting on Facebook guys like I can't even pay my rent. Anybody if you need like I will like I will drive you around if you need a driver for a day like I'll clean your house. I literally can't even pay my rent. And I was like, okay, this is exactly what I'm talking about. This is someone who less than a year ago couldn't even pay her rent. And now she's getting acknowledged as one of the best in the world for the thing that she didn't quit. And that's it. That's really it. There is no there's no short way there. There's no surefire way of not failing. There's no this is the thing that you do so that you never have shitty days. Nope, you just get out there and you keep doing it and you keep putting yourself out there and you're gentle enough with yourself that if it isn't working, you take a little holiday or you go work on yourself and stop working on your art for a minute. It's it's a it's a commitment thing. Yeah, not being afraid to change things up to experiment, but like you said don't give up and you don't know whether it's going to be one year or ten years. I just had Brian Bowen's Smith on the podcast and he was like he's been a photographer for twenty years and he took him ten years until he could actually make it professionally. Like without doing odd job like you get jobs here and there, but it was never consistent. And then around the ten year mark he ended up getting signed to an agency. After going every year for the four years before that showing his work and she'd be the agent which became his agent. But like no, you're not ready yet every year just going back and it takes patience, it takes persistence. But you're right, if you're it's just it's and that's what I find so rewarding by just hearing those stories Is just for us on our own paths because we're always working on something. Hopefully you're always working on something new. You're pushing yourself and challenge yourself to create new things things that you previously thought were not possible. So it's good to know that other people. Yeah, I mean my my brother and the who's an artist in Australia um. Applied to for his PhD like five years in a row and every single year I was like wow he's going back in there. Wow, he is. And now he's now he's freaking like you know a doctor and it's amazing. He has he finished it but so many people would have tried it once and be like man. So many people would have hit the second now and been like okay. It's it's really not meant to happen and no he just kept going and kept showing up. I saw Adrian Brody tweeted a couple weeks ago and said My dad always told me that it takes 15 years to become an overnight success but for me it took 17 and I was like I think that I think that was what the tweet was and I was just like yeah. Yeah, you need that. Like I think the biggest thing that you said was just working on yourself and that's one thing that I noticed about me that I didn't. You know everyone's in all you just forget it and you forget how you started out. But it was like I would just devour like self help us to rob and it was audio tapes. Like while raking the leaves and my parents front yard it's like those things helped to inspire me and push me forward and realize that I could do this. That it was possible and sometimes that's all you need. Hmm. When you say we get to quick questions little short segment here. Yeah. And then we'll wrap up. We good. All right. So quick questions. It doesn't have to be quick answer. So feel free to elaborate. Speaking of books. What book has made the biggest impact on your life. That's really hard. I, there are a few that come to mind that I really, really, really love. Um, so I'll just quickly say, um, I love just kids by Patty Smith. That to me was amazing. I love when breath becomes air. Have you read that one? Hmm. Oh my gosh. It was so good. Is this kind of a meditation type book? No. The book about, um, a surgeon from Berkeley who was just finishing his residency and found out that he was dying of cancer. And he wrote a book as he was dying. And it's so good. Right. We have the last lecture. I heard that one. Very similar. Like this guy finds out he's dying. Uh, and like this college, uh, would allow its professors to give one last lecture before they retire. So he gives his last lecture. It's like, uh, like, I'm not going to, I'm going to ruin the ending for anybody but it's been out for a long time. So okay. But the whole, the whole thing is like he gives this lecture. Um, but it ends up, and then towards the end of the book. And the end of the lecture actually, I think he explains it in the lecture. But it actually ends up being for his kids who are very young. Or he's like, I am not going to be there for you. So I want to be able to give these life lessons that I've learned. Um, but it's like at the end of it. I remember just like hiding the bathroom like crying reading this book. I'm like, just broken. But it's like, sometimes you need that. Sometimes you need to, uh, get a reality check. Yep. Yeah. One breath that comes air did that for me. I was like, uh, sobbing uncontrollably for him. It was not like, it was, it was just powerful. Yeah. It was so powerful. Um, and another one that I really love is, um, a course in miracles, which is really weird. Um, but that's more of a, like, um, self work stuff. Yeah. Um, and, and I don't know if you know Marion Williamson, but she, um, has, she broke it down. It's a weird, long book. And so she broke it down into, like, 365. Um, lessons. And so I've, I've, I've did them a couple of years ago and I'm redoing them again this year. And they're really, they're really rad just sort of like, uh, kind of like one sentence to think about for the day, but it kind of reframes everything and challenges, you know, everything that you do just naturally and kind of checking in with it, which I love. A good challenge. That's great. What skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others happen? Um, I think I think that connection is really, really important. And I think that sometimes I love connecting people, making people meet each other, being like, oh, you guys should know each other and being like generous with who I know and and how they can help each other out or make each other's lives better or make better art together. Um, I think sometimes it's easy to kind of, like, hoard people. People you know and be like, no, these are my colleagues are like, these are my friends, like, get your own, but I think the more generous that I can be, the more I find that I get other people introducing people to me because I just, you know, I do that. And so like, I've gotten to meet super red people. I've gotten to do super red jobs just because of that, like, free flow of like, hey, meet my friend. Hey, collaborate with my friend. Um, and I like having people around me that are like that as well. And I think it can be really draining to be around people who don't see relationship as a huge success piece and being a creative. Um, I interviewed Jacqueline Johnson, who's the CEO of Create and Cultivate on my podcast and one of the things that she said was, um, your reputation is your resume. And I was like, yep, that's like the best thing ever. And I think people that don't think about that. Like how I show up, how I am in relationship. That's actually way more important than a piece of paper. Absolutely. Well, put, what's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow? Stay open. That's it. That's the name of the fuck. Not 98.7% of the day. That's definitely not going to be it. That's fantastic. A couple more questions here and we'll wrap up. One, I always mention this on every podcast. Sometimes I cut it out just because I don't want to annoy my audience. But if you look over your shoulder, I've got the photo of the rock. It's my favorite photo of the rock. I'm trying to get the rock on my podcast. Okay. I have a website. It's called GetTheRockOnMatsPodcast.com. I've been putting a lot of work into it. Like the number one thing that my audience, like message me about, is like encouraging me to get the rock on. Because if you know anything about the rock, he's got the best ground up story. Started with $7 to his name. It became WWE superstar. We invented himself. And it's just a super inspirational character. And also, what an insane goal and challenge. Like the business person on the planet. He does like eight movies a year. So I'm trying to figure out a way to do that. If you have any advice for me, or if you happen to run into the rock at the gym or wherever. I'm totally gonna keep that in mind. Yeah, feel free to send him to my website. It's gonna happen. Yeah. Yeah. It's actually gonna happen. It is. Brian Bowen Smith is friends with the rock. And he tagged him in an Instagram post with that photo. And I was like, oh shit. Like, I think he knows now. Yeah. I have a feeling that he actually is aware of a guy named Matt trying to get him on his podcast. Then just don't come up. And that's a start. Yeah. And you just keep putting it out there. You just do it every time people run into him. I like the grocery store. Are they gonna be like, oh my gosh. Hey, there's his podcast that I listen to in every single episode. They talk about getting you on. And here's his here's Matt's email. Oh my gosh. And he's gonna get so tired of getting everyone at every coffee shop and podcast. He's just gonna call you. I've got a couple ideas. I'm gonna. I didn't do. I was I was I was planning on doing this. And like it just depends on the timing and everything. But I want to get a billboard like near his house. Which I think would be fine. I got a couple other ideas. But it's just going to it's going to like you said. He just needs to hear enough times that eventually something's going to break. And then it'll give in. But I'm patient. So five years, ten years. Yeah. Whatever. I'm saying less than three. I'm saying less than three. Yeah. I think less than three. It's going to happen. Not going to give up. All right. So two more questions here to wrap up. One thing to read, watch, or listen to before you go to bed. Sorry. I screwed up that question. Okay. All right. Let me do that again. Sure. Edit that out. Okay. Two more questions. So one thing that people should read, watch, or listen to before they go to bed tonight. Oh, man. Um, my current favorite show in the world. Is called Hamilton's Pharmacopia. It's on Vice. Vice-Lind. Vice-Lind. Yeah. Google it. Yeah. Okay. And um, the last time I loved to show this much was in Australia. There was a guy named John Safron who made a documentary series about him traveling all over the world and trying every religion. And it was called John Safron versus God. And so like he would go to like Africa and do Voodoo ceremonies and he went to like, you know, New Mexico and did payote and he went to the Mormon Tabernacle. Like he just did everything and he basically broke down what the religions kind of follow and boba. Anyway, this Hamilton's Pharmacopia is all about drugs, psychedelics. And this guy named Hamilton who's, you should, I mean, we all need to be his friend. I want, I want him on my podcast. There's much. That's your big goal. Yeah. Um, I want Hamilton on my podcast, but he is like a super dry, hilarious guy who just goes all over the world and basically looks at different psychedelics that different people around the world use and where they come from and what the history is. And I've never been so fascinated by the little profiles of different people around the world. I just think it's like such an intimate look at the way people do life, what they value, what they're trying to see when they do drugs, what they're trying to escape from. It's super, I'm like obsessed. I got to check that out. It's really good. Great. It's really good. And last question. How should people find you online? Well, let's see. There's a few thousand ways. My main one is probably Instagram, which is at Team Woodnote. Team and then Woodnote, W-O-O-D and O-T-E. That's where I am the most and I reply to DMs and stuff. So, you know, that's a good way to do it. Also, emails find, I'm also Team Woodnote on Twitter and I love Twitter again. I think Twitter's amazing. Twitter's cool. Yeah. It's sort of lost. It's Mojo for a couple years in there. But then I think with the election, everybody went back over. And I think also, there's just more engaging dialogue that isn't happening on like Instagram and Facebook because of all of the chronological timeline bullshit. So, I'm loving Twitter. I meet a lot of cool people through Twitter, surprisingly. Yeah. I've met a couple really good friends through it. You just never know. You never know. I'm so into it. Yeah. You just have to, and there's something that I always have to remind myself to be in control of these platforms and not let them control you because sometimes it can be very easy to compulsively check. So, I'm like, I gotta schedule this schedule my tweet time. I turned off all my notifications, which is also good because I don't want my phone dinging all the time. Yeah. That's important. Yeah. Okay. Great. All right. Thanks for coming on the show. Yeah. Thanks for having me. You know what was crazy about this episode that I just realized. It's being released on February 7th, 2018. Do you know what happened on February 7th, 2017? It was the very first podcast episode of The Ground Up Show. That makes us one year old. I maybe I'll add some sound effects there, like some exciting, like parties on February, maybe like an audience cheering or people popping. Really exciting to get through one year when I look back over the past year, not to get too self-congregulatory. There were some challenges to keep this podcast going. I started it out on a whim. I recorded a story. It was like an 8 minute 10 minute podcast about the biggest mistake I'd ever made. The most embarrassing mistake I'd ever made as a filmmaker. And I didn't know where it was going to go. I didn't know the direction I was heading at that point. I just knew I loved the medium. I loved podcasting. I wanted to be able to help people and share my stories. I didn't realize that I would be interviewing people. A few episodes and I realized I'm not that interesting by myself. And I can't hold an hour conversation in my own head. So at least one that's engaging enough. So what I did was I started to bring on guests and something amazing happened. I got to meet and connect with incredibly talented people. I was humbled by each and every one of them. You learn something from sitting down and talking with other creators. You learn that we all struggle with a lot of the same things. Self-doubt overcoming obstacles, staying consistent, making art that we're really proud of. These are all things that every creator struggles with. And these people that we're interviewing those who have achieved a lot, who've achieved measures of success through their own definition of success, they go through this as well. Doesn't matter if you're at the top, if you're the rock or if you're at rock bottom, everybody struggles with these things. And I'm hoping that these stories and these conversation gives you that. Give you guys some some motivation and momentum moving forward. I know that for me when I was getting started out and even to this day, it's amazing to hear these stories to be able to get encouragement from others. Because a lot of times we don't have that in our direct life. Those are lucky to have great significant others and family and friends to help push us forward. When I was starting out, I didn't. I had family and friends. I had a couple of people there that really helped me out. But for the most part, I didn't have anybody who was doing what I was doing. I didn't have any road map for success. And I'm hoping these conversations are that for you. So yeah, we are just getting started. I have no plans to stop anytime soon. I am nowhere near being able to make money and make this a sustainable thing. But I'll tell you what, I don't give a shit. I don't care. I'm going to keep doing this because I fucking love it. I really do. It is incredibly exciting and I'm going to find a way to make this work. Thanks for listening. See you next week.
