# Productivity // Ground Up 091
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RFFEK_Ssaiw
http://www.patreon.com/mattdavella
☝Get all my unlisted videos & support this channel.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-12-26

## Transcript
 Hey there, my name is Matt Diavella and you're listening to The Ground Up Show, the podcast where I talk with creatives about how to make shit happen. This week I sit down with YouTuber, podcaster and blogger Thomas Frank, a conversation ranges from overcoming social anxiety while a rejection doesn't matter and the one productivity tip that works best for him. It's about tricking your reign into thinking the work that you're about to do isn't very hard. This podcast is made at free thanks to Patreon supporters, go to patreon.com slash Matt Diavella to support the show and get access to a dozen exclusive videos with new content coming every month. Again, that's patreon.com slash Matt Diavella, enjoy the show. Thomas, thank you for coming on the show, do you go by Tom or Thomas? Tom is professionally, although every good friend of mine calls me Tom, cool, weirdly. All right, Tom. Good friends now. Yeah, that's how you be kind of like, yeah, I was the short guy who's that name. Now they get a bunch of tweets calling me Tom, right, you know, I've tried so hard, so cool, give me like a bit of an intro, some of the work that you do and how you spend your days. Yeah, I make YouTube videos, podcasts, blog posts, a single book, I guess I can't say books, but a single book ostensibly on how to be a more capable person. That's how I like to describe it these days. But that generally focuses around academic performance and success and productivity, but also ventures into personal finance and health and sleep and all kinds of stuff like that. Basically, if I'm interested in it and it helps people live their lives better, I make content on it. And it looks like you guys started out in college, around college related content like studying and performing well in school. Is that when all this started for you? Yeah, this was 2010. So when I was a freshman in college, there was a blog I was following called Hack College. And it was pretty much a shameless life hacker, but for college. And I loved it because I wanted to do well in school and I was reading that blog to get better doing well in school. So it was one of those four students by students kind of things, meaning at the end of my freshman year, the two founders finished college and got kicked off the writing staff. So they said, hey, we need new writers if you want to be a writer for this blog, then send us an application into guest post and we'll see if you are, you know, you got the stuff for it. So I did that. I spent an entire night writing this guest post for them, sent him an application, made sure my LinkedIn was super pretty and properly got rejected. And I was thinking to myself, well, it's probably not that hard to sort of blog I bet. So I don't want to let this post go to waste. So in an evening, I came up with the name College in Fogique and I picked up that name because I was a management information systems major. I originally intended it to be for information systems and IT people that did not happen. And then I put up my first blog post. And it was basically supposed to be like a little bit of a resume boost for in a way for me to share what I was doing. Never did I think it would be a full-time career. But I was wrong. Did it take long to start to have things stick for you where people started to come and check out what you were writing. I suppose, like, what does long mean? I guess any time when you first start something, it's really difficult to get that consistency going when you're getting zero feedback. So I imagine you probably loved it, but also I'm curious when things started to tip where you started to see, like, oh, actually there's 100 people or there's a thousand people coming to my blog every week or day or month or whatever. So I imagine maybe what is that first year or two look like? Yeah. So in my case, the first year actually did hold a couple of true catalyst events, which really tip the scales in terms of audience growth. The first one was pretty small, but I got a guest post published on Hack College. So that rejection did not prevent me from going and befriending everyone who worked there. And I posted a guest post and I remember looking at my Google analytics and seeing 90 people coming in that day, and it was just like, oh, wow. This is more than 20, which I think is just my mom opening 20 different browser tags. I think a couple of months after that, I went home for the summer, and I was really dissatisfied with my desk at home because my school issue dorm desk was this gigantic, just beautiful, huge desk that I was able to put my dual monitors on and everything. And I go back home to my high school desk, which was bought from the Goodwill and was about half the size. So I'm thinking, all right, I don't want to buy a gigantic, huge desk for this room. What can I do that will give me the same amount of desk space and could be a cool fun project? And it came up with the idea of hanging a desk from chains off of my loft bed. So I go to Home Depot, I buy a piece of MDF board, some chains, drill holes in it, and I take pictures of the whole process. Make a little blog post about it. And after I posted it the next day, Hack College had done one of those little, not like reposting the entire post, but reposting a little bit about it. About it, like a, just hey, go check this out, kind of thing. And then life hacker picked up that and did their own. And in one day, 4,000 people came to the site. And that was sort of the, oh, this could be a thing moment. And from there, I just sort of working really hard, publishing a lot more, getting consistent. I went through a period where I tried to build a writing team. And that did not work out too well. Turns out there's a lot more people who say they want to be a blogger than people who want to consistently write. But it was a good experience. Yeah, and that's that there's, those are two different paths as well, where it's, I do you want to be the creator and writer behind everything, yep, which is more of a personal type brand or a personal position, where if you look at my friends, the minimalist, they write essays every week about minimalism and simple living. And if they outsource that to somebody else, it would be a totally different website. You'd probably have to have a different name, you could, yeah, you could do that. But that's like a hoffening post or like, you say, that's a living hacker. Yep. And that's, those are definitely two different courses to take. And I was actually kind of glad that all those people decided to leave because I had been reading that college. And that college was like a life hack we're having to post with a staff. And that was kind of where my mind was at the time. But then as I became more interested in this whole blogging world and started thinking about becoming a full-time blogger, I started reading people like them in lists. And like Steve Kamel, writer, fitness. And thinking of myself like these sites have a voice that is very distinct because it's a single author or possibly maybe just two or three. And I wanted that for my site as well. So after everyone kind of went their own way, I decided to shut down writer applications, take no guest posts, and just focus on long-form content and only I wrote. That probably radically changed where, I mean, obviously had to have changed where I went in the future. I mean, I made it more successful because we were publishing better content. Yeah. It's kind of interesting that you got rejected early on, which I mean, it's something that anybody who tries to do something is going to come up against. Yeah. But in a lot of ways, it's a blessing. Because imagine if you got the gigs or the jobs early on, then you never would have done this thing by yourself. And like sometimes it takes looking out where in the moment it feels like an absolute failure. Yeah, definitely been there. But you're like, thank God, I didn't get that even the dream job at the time. Yeah. Absolutely. I've thought back to that moment many times. And I don't think that any of this would have happened. Had I been writing for them because, I mean, who knows butterfly effect and all that kind of stuff. Yeah. But the most likely path in my head that I see in that scenario is that I would have just eventually not been a writer for the many more and I would have gone on to do something else totally unrelated. Interesting enough, I had a very similar experience but with college humor. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So I had a job interview. My junior year of college. I didn't tell them that I was still in college. But it was like a video editor position. And then I went from, you know, took the bus, the Chinatown bus from Philly to New York. And I had the job interview. And I don't know if you followed college humor early on. But I think back when super early. Yeah. I think when did you graduate college? 2013. Okay. So it's like around this, it's a very similar time when college humor was really, really big. I mean, I think they're still big now. But I, I watched them now. Oh, you do. Yeah. Okay. So they're still pretty relevant. Yeah. I'm just, I'm like an old time right now. There's more of like a sketch comedy channel. Like, I feel like they're in the same position that I with college in Boquique with a name of stuck, but they have nothing to do with college. Ah, that makes sense. I remember going in, there was a, I forget the guys names. But there was all these people that I watched in videos. And I looked up too. And I was really excited about that. I was making them here. Jake and Amir. Yeah. I watched every single one of their videos. And I see them around the office. And I'm like, I'm a little crazy. And then dream job. Dream job. And then I didn't get it. And I applied again. And a couple of years later, and I didn't get it. And thank God, I didn't get it. I mean, I still had to struggle for those next couple of years making wedding videos in bar midsphas. But it's, it, I think it's all worth it. But it's kind of like hindsight's 2020, where maybe the lesson is that don't worry if you fail right now, because it may actually be about blessing in this. Yes. And I've told students this for years. If you are good at what you're doing or you're putting in a lot of work, then one rejection doesn't matter, because as long as you're making progress, there's going to be an opportunity at some point that allows you to take advantage of what you've been building. It just may not be that one specific thing that you're going for right now. What was your college experience like? It was great. Honestly, though, I went into college thinking that I was going to be an IT guy. And I remember in high school watching the Matrix and wanting to be tank, it was the guy who sits at the terminal and has like the 15 monitors with the text kind of coming down like rain. So I watched that and I would watch the IT crowd and all these like IT humor videos and I was super into computers. Weirdly, I was a web designer in college in high school, but I wanted to do IT infrastructure. And I think it was because I was just fascinated with the layout of networks and all stuff like that. So I went to college, did well. I purposely did not take too many courses. So I was full time, but I was never overloading myself with courses because I wanted to have a lot of time for extra curriculars. Did all kinds of stuff there. And then I did an internship after my sophomore year at a big financial company. And I thought this was going to be the dream job because they said, you can pick where you want to go. And I said, put me a networking thinking I was going to be building networks and hooking up routers. And instead, I found myself in a cubicle. And my job was blocking Facebook basically. There would come a request. We need you to block this site so people can't visit it. And then I would have to write up a document saying exactly what I was going to do every time. And I would have to submit it through three different bosses. And then once the final boss approved it, I would then go do it. So really creatively stimulating stuff. Oh, it's terrible. It was terrible, but it taught me a very valuable lesson. And I'm very thankful I had to go through this experience. And it felt honestly like a prison sentence at the time. It felt like I felt like I was stuck there. And I really wanted to leave. But I didn't want to be a quitter. But I'm very glad I did that internship because it taught me that I'm not built for maintenance work. I'm not built for the kind of work where you're just tending something that's already been created. I need to build things from scratch on my own. And I don't think I would have learned that lesson as viscerally, how do I not done that? I guess sometimes it takes doing work that you're not really passionate about working in a grocery store to realize, oh, okay, actually I wouldn't be happy doing this. Exactly. Because before we do those things, we're just left guessing. We have representations in the media. And we may have second hand accounts for people we know. Maybe we have a shadow and experience if we're lucky. But until we actually get into it, and we do it week after week, we don't know. Number one, if we like doing the actual hands-on things, and number two, what meta working qualities that come with the job that we like in dislike. Does it also in a way light a fire under your ass to be like, I am my existence day to day is very mundane and I'm not being challenged. This is a life I don't want. And in a way does it motivate you? Or is there a potential to get stuck even further and just be reliant on that income? I'm not sure. I think both can happen depending on the kind of person you are. And I would have to say honestly, my negative experience in the internship, that didn't like the fire under my ass to make me work harder. What did was the concurrent success of the blog, because I went into that internship during the same summer where that life hacker thing happened. I think. I could be wrong about that, getting my timeline screwed up. I was actually at your... No, it was life hacker thing happened. I went into my internship, and nights and weekends, I was blogging and trying to build this thing up. So I'm at work every single day, hating it, but then I'm coming home every single day, building this thing. And the internship ended, and it wasn't like, oh, I don't want to go back to that life. It was more, I was just so excited about what was growing over here. Yeah, and I think that this is probably a pivotal time when we're starting to see other examples of this. You could go out and see that there's other people that are making this work, that maybe gives you an idea that there is potential there, that you could actually make a living doing it. Yeah. I mean, I was looking up to the Steve Cambs and the Pat Flens of the World and thinking, well, if they could do it, then maybe I could do it now. And it was funny. The initial look at those people, I saw them as like, God's of the pantheon. Like, I could never do that. They must be so smart. So much smarter than me. Or maybe they just got so lucky. That's not for me. But eventually realized, wait a minute, I'm actually not making it enough money to pay rent with a blog. I didn't even think that was possible. So maybe what they're doing is possible. Is there, like, an expectation versus reality with any kind of online persona or quote unquote influencer where people see some, they might see a video from you where you're breaking down five tips to help you with your productivity. And then they automatically assume that your productivity guy and that your life is perfect. And there's this like kind of weird expectation versus reality. Oh, I guarantee you a lot of people think I'm a productivity god. But my girlfriend's sitting in the room over there, she knows that I'm not. So I actually do make an effort to to show my flaws on social media. And like, I will show myself failing at an athletic thing on this screen sometimes. Or I remember one time I posted just me trying to get this one lick right 50 times and it just sounds horrible. But I want to show people like, you're looking at my highlight real and you're looking at a meticulously crafted script most of the time. And every single week I'm giving you guys a new productivity tip. I could not physically do all of these things. And I definitely don't. I'm an imperfect person. And when it comes to that expectation versus reality thing, I think that can also lead to fear when you're meeting someone like that. So I live by something that I like to call a Netflix rule. And this is basically an assumption of my head that whether it's Arnold Schwarzenegger or Gary Vaynerchuk or Oprah Winfrey, these people as accessible as they are and as self-disciplined as they are most the time, are probably going to go home tonight at some point kick off their shoes and watch Netflix because they're tired. And maybe they're going to order a pizza because it's been a long tour and they're just very stressed. And hey, I do those things too, which means that we're like in at least one way. And that means that we're not completely separate beings. So there is some degree to which we can connect. And that just kills the intimidation factor. Yeah, it's well because like you said, you're seeing the polished final version of somebody. You're seeing where they are now after 30 years of working at something and honing something. You look at Gary Vee. His ideas have been formulated over a very long period of time. And it takes a lot of work to get there and we're all humans, we're all flawed and no matter how polished you think somebody is or how smart you think they are, they have their moments of doubt. Absolutely. Yeah. And there's another thing that people need to realize. Regardless of what a person like me or a person like you is known for being skilled as maybe a podcaster, a youtuber or an athlete, there's like a meta skill that each of us has, I don't want to say, mastered but gotten very good at. And that's presenting ourselves very well in mass media. That's why our president is somebody who was in the media. And this started I think with Ronald Reagan. It's people who know how to how to use mass media tools to make themselves look very good into deliver a message. So people at home, whoever practice that skill, look at people like us, assume that they don't see that. They just see that, oh, we're a god of productivity or a god of podcasting or like the best filmmaker ever or something like that. Yeah, they sure do and they look at this podcast. Well, I think you're right in terms of like showing the flaws and I think that's something that's starting to happen more and more. I think people are starting to get fed up with the soundbites and they're looking for an authentic connection. So if you're looking to make something and start something now, I think you should show and document the whole process. Like show the fact that you're, I mean, maybe Monday's video is the put together video where you show your breakdown of five tips or whatever and it's pretty clean cut. But then Friday you do a little bit more behind the scenes where you're showing what your days are actually like and how tough it is to actually make it. I think that the fake it to you make it in that aspect doesn't need to happen. There's an element of faking it or at least like when you have the imposter syndrome faking it because you're working with clients and you're trying to build a business that professional and I totally get that. But when you're connecting consumer to consumer or just your friend, you're just talking to people that might be your friends, I think it helped to share your vulnerability. Yeah, there's a difference between having the confidence to assume an identity that you want, even if you don't feel that you have the requisite amount of experience and trying to represent yourself as somebody who you truly aren't. How have you seen your, your content evolve and like the things that you've talked about because you've been doing this for a very long time? I feel like for me, it's just very new. I mean, six months, maybe a year. Have you ever been doing this for six months? Yeah. Well, the podcast actually started at a little over a year ago. So that's a little bit incorrect. But the YouTube channel stuff, maybe eight months, six months, where it's just actually been resonating or at least the videos that have been making have been doing better than a hundred views of it. It was a year of just getting a hundred to two hundred views and getting excited when I broke 500. Yeah. But I've seen you just creating over a very long period of time. So what does that look like in terms of your voice? Like my actual voice? Yeah. Like you got deeper. You get some baritone in there. Voice has definitely gotten better. Yeah. I think it actually has gotten deeper. As it, well, I think that when you spend as many hours as I have doing podcasts, you train your voice to sound a certain way. So I do believe that it sounds better. I also have better mics now. Okay. So that's part of it. I don't think that there's any excuse for having a shit mic. I mean, if you have zero dollars short, don't get a mic. But I mean, you get a hundred dollars to $1,550. Yeah. And really are $1,100. Is that what you got? Well, I bought that as a travel mic. Yeah. But then I tested it against this one. And I mean, this is a great mic. But if you're podcasting, I couldn't tell much of a difference. Yeah. I think it has to do a lot more with the acoustics, the room than anything else. And maybe just a little bit of touch of editing. But yes, and I don't want to get too nerdy on people, but look up a absorbing foam. If you want to cut down on the amount of echo. Yeah. And they should do that. So then she'll look at each other. Well, not exactly that. So they're in the way. Everyone puts the eggshells or they get the wavy foam from Amazon. It's like audio foam. But that's it's super light. So all it's going to do is diffuse the sound waves and keep them from bouncing back and forth and creating that oscillation, which creates echo. But you can also buy these very thick, heavy absorbing panels. And they will just dead in the sound. You can also put blankets in the walls. You'll get the same effect. Yeah. Once I bought those, it was like, whoa. Yeah, I would actually do it underneath my blank. Like if I was going to voice over, I'd go under my blanket to my bed because I would do client work. And I might do a voice over for them. And that was the best way to do it because I was like in a studio apartment. I didn't have any the acoustics for horrible. And some people do podcasting out of their closet. Yeah. Matthew Patrick from Game Theory. Yeah. He did a, you know, how I work video. And they were at probably five or six million subscribers at the time. And he's showing himself going into his closet sitting on the floor, hell of a shirts around him and closing the door to do the voiceovers. It's funny because yeah, you could never know. You never know if you're listening to it. But in terms of not your actual voice, but your metaphorical voice of maybe showing up more authentically and kind of letting your guard down and being more yourself. What did that process look like? I think it's been so slow and gradual that I don't really feel that there's been a huge change. I'm sure there is from an outside observer's perspective. The biggest change that I can see is that I've broadened what I talk about because college in Bogeek started as a college project. I was a freshman in college when I built it. And as I've gotten older and older and older, I realized that I can't pigeonhole myself into this whole college and student branding because number one, I am limiting it audience. And I would say to anybody who is going to get into that, like, you are kind of limiting yourself, but any niche limits itself. And that's also a strength. You know, minimalism is limiting in certain ways, but it also means that the people who are into it, like, no, that's what you're about. So they're going to be very into it. But as like an older I realized, I can't be 27 with, you know, a nice apartment and a 401k talking about dorm laundry hacks. And I can't be talking about how to save, like, four cents on a textbook because I'm not in that anymore. And it's not authentic anymore. And number one, I wouldn't want to do it, but I don't think I could communicate it with the authenticity and the excitement that is required. So I started ask myself, how can I sort of pivot to talk about things that I still care about, but still serve my audience? And I remember having conversations, specifically one with a friend in San Diego a few years ago. I think this was actually 2012. He said, tell him you're graduating next year, you need to build a new website because you're going to graduate, you're going to be the old man, and no one's going to care anymore. The interesting thing is I didn't start doing YouTube videos until I had been out of college for over a year. And that's when I started doing academic success stuff. And people liked it. So it wasn't a case that I was the old man who didn't care anymore. I just had to work on stuff that I was interested in. So now I basically just removed all the college branding from my channel and sometimes I do academic videos, but sometimes I'll do a personal finance video, or sometimes a little podcast on how to buy a house. It seems like there's sometimes we have these self-limiting beliefs. Some of them might end up being true like in a long run. I can't really talk about college could be true. I mean, but also there's probably a way to pull it off, and it may be required bringing more college students on and doing videos with people who are younger and getting creative. But I find myself doing that often, falling into the trap of creating excuses. So I don't have that camera, so I can't shoot that documentary, or I don't have those running shoes, so I can't start my workout now. I'm going to wait until I actually get those pair of shoes in the mail. And we tell all these stories. But in actuality, we have probably everything we need to at least get started. Like anybody has, if you want to be a filmmaker, I know how tough it is, because everybody's got an iPhone, but you can still make a film with it. And you can still have fun. You can make a sketch comedy video, whatever it is. Same thing with exercise, you don't need all this stuff to actually get done. Do you find yourself ever falling into those traps? I haven't done it. But now I try to challenge it, and we time my brain brings up those little excuses. And I mean, for the longest time, I didn't do YouTube because of a story like that. I was following the fizzle guys, and I was following the minimalist and Pat Flynn. And all of these people will talk about the video gear that they had, which was Canon 5D Mark III with an expensive lens, and usually a set of costs, I don't know, three to four thousand dollars. So I think I can't be a YouTuber. I can't make video content from my blog because I'm still in college and I don't have the money for a $3,000 camera set up. Until I go watch YouTubers with 500,000 subscribers who are filming on like a $200 camera. And then I realize, wait a minute, I'm just making excuses. I have a camera sitting over there. And even if it doesn't look quite as good as all those, you know, beautiful, crispy, blurred background videos like this one probably looks like right now. Super blurred out behind you. Yeah, it's going to look amazing. But you know what, that doesn't stop me from making a video. Yeah. And I mean, that's not how I started. You know, and that's what you always have to think about. It's like look back 10 years ago. And my very first camera, nobody in their right mind would ever use it today. It's a Sony handy cam. Horrible. It was not even 720p. I don't even think we're in the realm of HD. And but it was, and it wasn't about getting views or likes or anything. It was just because I really enjoyed making stuff with it. It just makes stuff. Yeah. But I think a lot of times you just have to be resourceful and use what you have versus thinking that you need to have everything. And I mean, I got a paper light that's lighting the scene that costs $30. So I, there's still good, yeah. And there's, there's part of me that wants to keep that. But I don't think there's anything wrong with upgrading the light down the road or tweaking your lens, your camera. I think reinvesting is a really positive thing for any business. Yeah. There's nothing wrong with upgrading your gear. Just don't use the lack of upgraded gear as a excuse for not taking action. So obviously, like you said, you've talked a lot about productivity. Are there? And the, you said, you've talked about so much productivity that you couldn't possibly follow every single step in a piece of advice yourself or at least implement all of it into your life at one time. But have there been some things that work for you specifically? Yeah. When I use these things, they really help. The Pomodoro technique works really well for me because I'm the kind of person who has a lot of resistance, mental resistance, especially when it comes to the act of writing. I will tell myself, I have some emails to go check or I should, I'm like one of those writers who has a very not full laundry basket because I'll just tell myself, I need to do laundry. But no, I need to get writing. So putting 25 minutes on that timer, basically starting the timer and saying it's time to write, that's very helpful for me. What's it called? It's the Pomodoro technique. And is it the guy's name Pomodoro? No, it's, I think, Bill Frado Pareto may have made it or something. Actually, I could be mixing that up right now. But it's based off of the Italian word for tomato because a lot of kitchen timers are shaped like a tomato. So you would just, you know, turn your tomato timer to 25 minutes. And you do that on your phone where you just said, yeah, I have a little app called Tide. I love. Okay, how does that work? You just open it and it's basically set to 25 minutes. It also has like some ambient soundscape stuff, but I did listen to my own music. And then you start, do you normally work past 25 minutes? Oh yeah, like pretty much most. So a lot of people say like, oh, 25 minutes isn't enough, but it's not about 25 minutes. It's about tricking your brain into thinking the work that you're about to do isn't very hard. Because we tell ourselves, I need to write a video script or I need to write a blog post or whatever it is. And it's daunting because it's hard to write a polished video script. And your brain tells you, you got to do that all in one go. You can do it later. So it's all about getting past this mental resistance. And if you tell yourself, I'm going to now follow an input-based goal. Work for 25 minutes. Regardless of what I get done, I get to stop at 25 minutes. Instead of an output-based goal, I must now finish this video script. It's very easy to get into it. And nine times out of ten, when that time goes off, I just hit start over again and I keep working. And then you keep going. Do you get, so how does the rest of your work day look? Like, does it, do you kind of chunk it or work on certain things during certain, during certain time of day? My work days are not very consistent. It's hard to say I do this and then I do this and I wake up. I do a bit of a morning routine, water my plants, and I feed the cat and usually make a big smoothie with a lot of ingredients in it for breakfast. And then sometimes I'll go to my office to work. Sometimes I'll work at home. It really depends on if I need to film that day, which if I do, I'm staying home. If not, I'll go to the office. Or sometimes I'll mix it up and go to a coffee shop. And that lack of consistency in terms of the day to day, does that actually make it more challenging to keep up routines and get work done versus, or does that actually make it a little bit more interesting? They are always doing something a little bit different. I think it makes it more interesting. Though I do think that personally, there could be more consistency in discipline in, especially my writing process. I mean, I'm trying to be vulnerable and open. I'm not a very consistent writer. But it seems like everything that you do requires writing. Yes. I mean, all your videos, all your blog posts, everything that you do, has like, I mean, a lot of people don't think that writing makes it way that much into videos. But I feel like that is the one skill that I think people underestimate. And it's the one thing that across the board, it can be applied to anything, like buy out your website, description, how you communicate with people writing videos for YouTube videos. So important. Any writing is just telling stories. And we connect with stories more than anything else. So regardless of what you're doing, if you're communicating in any way or communicating through your work, then being able to tell a story and string it together well is a very important skill. You never thought that you would be basically a professional writer when you were in college. I think that I thought I was going to be in the basement, plug and routers in. It's crazy, dude. Is that it? You wouldn't have been happy doing it. Well, I think that maybe it goes to say that it's good to, this is like the Tim Ferriss method where you maybe experience retirement, what it's like before you actually get there. And you have this image in your mind of what you would do at 65 years old when you retire. But you have no idea of knowing if you'd actually be happy with that. Yeah. So why work your entire life for it when you could just pause right now, maybe take three months off. The risk is pretty low. And then you could say, okay, you know, actually don't, I don't really like traveling. Yeah. You know what? I don't. Yeah. I looked at who was it, legal nomads. I think her name is, is it Jodi? I think. And then Steve Cam was a full-time nomad for a while and there was nomatic mat in all his guys. So in college, I thought that's the life. I can just live at a hostel and have a backpack with my roll-up vacuum packed luggage bags and my laptop and just do that. And I went to Japan for just two weeks. And after that, I was like, I got to go home. This is not for me. I feel the same way. I mean, love travel. But and actually, so what I've been doing lately is like just filming my travel and like just making little vacation videos. And I mean, I'll put them on Patreon. But it's kind of for me, I get more joy out of it because I'm actually, I don't know, like, I'm a filmmaker. I love doing it. And for me to be able to capture a trip to me is almost more enjoyable than just going there. Okay. Yeah, I don't know why. I just think I just, I get something out of being able to, like, especially when you're in the edit and you're like, looking at these beautiful shots. You know, a lot of people think, oh, if you're taking a photo or video, you're not experiencing the moment. But in a lot of ways, I could experience that moment, time and again. Is that corny? Is that not true? But I do think it highlights that there's often big differences between people who might seem to have very similar jobs. Because in my mind, that's vlogging. Possibly. And I can't stand it. Yeah. But I totally get how I can see how you would love it. It's just that I don't love it. In element of it, right? If I had to do it every single day while on the trip for like two weeks, I think I'd be miserable. But I'll pick a day or two and then we'll shoot some stuff. And it definitely is tiring. You know, it's, it's definitely work. But I do, I do actually get a lot of value from it. But it's interesting that you just don't like the travel. It is like, yeah, because people see the stuff. They see the Instagram accounts. And they see the travelers and the blogs and all that stuff that show this lifestyle. But you would never know what it feels like until you actually do it yourself. Yeah. And which I would encourage people to do it if they can. Yeah. Do you, are you a big fan of like little lifestyle experiments and just trying different things? Yes. I mean, if you ask my girlfriend, she'll say I'm like the most phasic person. She's ever met. I seem to have a new obsession every two weeks. But I'm okay with that actually. Yeah. And I think it's almost like I'm just, there's different chapters of my life where I'm like a different person five years ago than I am now. So, and actually I think five years ago, I would say that I was in your position where I love documenting my trips and things like that. But now I just don't. Yeah. Somebody recently said it on the podcast about their life. They kind of see it in seasons. So, and you know, maybe this season's one where I'm working really hard and I'm putting my head down and I'm not, you know, spending much time relaxing. Yeah. And there are the seasons where you get the relax more. And I saw that more in my client work where I would just have slow periods where you'd be forced to relax. Yeah. I got to figure out some of the to do with my days. But I think that it's kind of finding balance over the long run versus finding balance on a day-to-day basis. So, there's a podcast I listened to called Cortex. And I think this was the very first episode. One of the hosts whose name is CGB Gray, one of my favorite YouTubers. He talks about this analogy with four light bulbs. And you only have like a certain amount of courage to put in those light bulbs. So, you can have one be very bright or you can have them all be kind of dim. And these represent the areas of your life work and health and fun and family. And there may be others. But those are the ones he said. And at any given time, you have to distribute the power you have to those four light bulbs. So, one may be very bright, such as work. But the other ones have to be a little bit dimmer in response. And I was thinking about that recently because I felt, and I told my girlfriend about this the other day, I feel very, very fulfilled in my life personally right now. I've been putting a lot of time into athletics. I've been spending a lot of quality time with her and with friends. I've been eating better. But I don't feel that I've pushed myself artistically in my work in a little bit. And I feel guilty about that. And then I came to this conference here in LA and I was talking to a friend about that and he said, you know, you go through cycles in your business. Sometimes you're pushing yourself artistically and you're really heads down. And other times you're almost on maintenance mode. But you don't need to feel guilty about that because everyone goes through these cycles. And the fact that you are fulfilled personally right now means that you've just devoted energy to those other light bulbs. Because when I'm heads down on my work, my diet's not as good. I'm not giving as much attention to my girlfriend. I'm not putting time at athletics. And weirdly, I don't feel guilty about those things. But I feel guilty about taking some of the pressure off of work. Wow, it just seems kind of messed up. A little bit, but I think that it probably would go the other way as well. I mean, I think it's hard to find balance. And I don't know if we ever do achieve it. I think you're right. I think it's constantly is just tipping back this direction, that direction. See, there's a pendulum. Yeah, and I think it's swinging too far one way and trying to get it back. It's like internal too because it's almost like a nagging feeling where like, oh, I haven't visited home and, you know, it may be three four months. I should probably make a trip back soon. And it's those internal things that you have to listen to. But it's how do you actually make that a priority? Do you have like practices of, you know, maybe sitting down and just doing a one-on-one with yourself and brainstorming it out. Yeah, I definitely do. And I wouldn't say that it's a regular sort of journalistic habit where I sit down and review my week. And this is something I recommended, so maybe I should do it. Yeah. But there are definitely times where I will sit down. I'll open a blank document and never note and either write out what my priorities are or the kind of person that I want to be in the next six weeks or when I'm going to start doing, you know, going forward and then act on that. Do you, do you believe in goals? I know that there's the, I've heard two sides of it. Yeah, Leo Babouta, I don't know if you follow Zen Habits. I used to for sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, he, like, very inspiring for me early on when I got into minimalism. And he's definitely talked about the fact that you don't need goals. Actually, just had James clear on the podcast. Mm-hm. He had a really interesting perspective where he was saying, uh, everybody in a baseball game or football game has the same goal to win the game. Yeah, it doesn't affect the outcome. Mm-hm. That said, do you use goals and you think that they help guide you? Because obviously life isn't a basketball game, but it's a sporting event. I definitely use goals. My website has an impossible list on the, the homepage and top menu. And there's just this gigantic list of goals in all aspects of my life. But I'm kind of on the same page as James is because, and I'm reading his book right now. So I can also understand the nuance behind him saying that goals are fine to have. But on a day-to-day basis, they shouldn't be what drives you. Your systems should be what drive you. And you should be making sure that the process you follow on a day-to-day basis is a satisfying one that makes you happy and that makes you feel fulfilled. So the goals can be sort of a North Star, but they need to be backed up by systems and processes. I think goal is going to be fun too. Yeah, right? Like you can just see them. Yeah, what are some of your craziest goals that are on your list? The biggest one right now is beyond American Ninja Warrior. And I'm actively training for it. Are you? There's a gym in Denver. It's an actual Ninja Warrior gym and the coaches have been on the show. So I'm going there and then I'm going to a rock climbing gym probably three times a week too. And this has been awesome because my girlfriend discovered that she loves rock climbing. So we go together and spend a ton of quality time together. I'm getting ridiculously strong from it and it's just so much fun. Well, talk about a goal literally having an effect. Like that's I think the most clear example of if you didn't have that goal, there would be no motivation to rock climb the try something new and to even get maybe more fit than you've ever been before. But there's also the process there because I find myself just itching to go to the rock climbing gym. Like I've never itched to go to the normal gym. You know and I've had normal goals like you know hit a thousand pound total power lifting between squat bench and deadlift and those are cool goals and all but every time I went to the gym just to lift I would tell myself like this isn't fun. I don't like this but this Ninja Warrior goal has me doing training that not all the time but most of the time I enjoy doing. Wow yeah I think it is it's sometimes difficult to find that physical activity that like say a workout routine or whatever that you actually really enjoy and I think that's the thing that most people miss. Yeah and like that's the thing that I see when I've done classes before I really don't like classes. I don't like sweating it out and those just it's really it's difficult and challenging in a way that I don't enjoy. There's plenty of workouts that I can get a good workout at. I'm actually part of a dodgeball league here in West Hollywood. Yeah it's amazing. It's it's like high energy and I work up a crazy sweat. It's like tennis in a lot of ways where you just jump and move back and forth and especially if you can if you are proactive and like dodging and you know this is obviously a lazy way to play dodgeball. You go to the back and just sort of like just like tie the moves. Yeah you know but there's things like that that are really fun that it's a cool little you know once a week activity that gets me going that I don't need to go to the gym for but a lot of people like don't realize or don't at least try to have fun while working out. So this is my theory. People go to high school and they try football they try baseball or basketball or track which those are generally the choices. Maybe they have tennis or you go through PE classes and unless you're the jock you don't do very well so you don't enjoy it that much because the scores are prioritized or the people who are super athletic kind of dominate the competition you grow up you get your office job and you think back to those experiences doing sports and think I didn't like those. So what are my options? I guess I'll get a gym membership and I guess I'll lift weights or I'll plot along on a treadmill or ride a stationary bike or maybe I'll go jogging outside. So I feel like we have this very limited band of athletic activities that we default to and feel that are our choices and there's nothing wrong with doing those if you love going to the gym do it but there's so much more you can do and I don't know if it's the fact that people feel embarrassed to do something like I don't know do it joining a dance class or joining a dodgeball league or if they just don't think of it but they don't do things that I think they would be excited to do every single week. I think it maybe it's inherently this social aspect of it that it's a little bit intimidating and scary and I've definitely joined my fair share of social dodgeball, softball leagues, volleyball, I've done I mean early on I was just doing them because I was trying to meet girls like when I was single yeah I guess I'll play volleyball and it was the social aspect I think that scared me about it and also drove me to do it I think it was a push pole but definitely the the day of or the day before you get really nervous you're like oh my god all these new people and I get anxious in general and yeah it's it's that's definitely a big hurdle I think for people to get over. I started vocal lessons recently and I remember very distinctly about 10 minutes before my very first one I had never met the teacher face to face I was so close to texting hey man I don't think I can do this lotus for schedule but I didn't and I went in there and I sang and probably sounded terrible but now I go over week and it's great and I don't feel scared anymore because he didn't make fun of me he didn't say oh my gosh you're not you're not good you should just quit right now and you know maybe he's stringing me along for money I don't know but it doesn't feel like that it feels like I'm getting better and I'm enjoying his experience so I think one of the the greatest I don't know quote unquote life hacks that people can learn is learn to be okay with potentially being the worst person in the room at what you're trying because that means there's only one way to go up and as long as you can deal with the potential embarrassment you're fine and the other thing is like people are super seldom absorbed so whether it's the gym or dodgeball or whatever people are probably focusing on their own form or trying to dodge the balls for themselves they're not looking at you and judging or every single move that's uh I think what I hear a lot when people say oh that's great that you wear the same thing every day but I could never do that and I say you don't realize that most people don't give a shit what you're wearing they do not they don't care I mean I understand like you can't wear the same red dress to work every day but you could have a much simpler wardrobe and I'm sure that you don't wear 80% of the clothes that are in your closet anyway I do yeah yeah yeah it's because I well if there's if there's one area where I'm minimalist it's clothing that's great because I just don't have space for it oh that's fine do you guys have a small place uh no but we only have we have a walk-in closet for clothing it's just that Anna has a lot more clothes than I do yeah yeah it's the same thing with that and she also has costumes oh yeah yeah what kind of you used to do a lot of cosplay Anna make conventions and she makes them herself and she keeps them also a lot of the closet space is taken up by those or you know dresses things like that yeah not a minimalist no but neither of us are minimalist yeah which it's kind of funny I feel like an intruder on this podcast because nobody would describe me as a minimalist well yeah you don't have to that's not a prerequisite for the podcast fortunately or else I might only have two guests on the show like Ryan and Josh and Ryan and Natalie's not either okay but I think that's one of the things is when I first got into it I thought that that's it I'm gonna have to get rid of all my friends I can only be friends with minimalist now people who share the same values and beliefs with myself and then eventually like I took the stick out of my ass and I was like now this is it's supposed to be getting past the stuff like some worrying about the things just enjoy your life let people make their own decisions and maybe it's for some people maybe it's not but um and my best friend in business partner is a minimalist oh really yes it's just he does not own very many things he's got like a piano and a few like Nick next things that he really you know values but he doesn't own that much at all it's funny that perspective that people have a minimalism too because it isn't relatively new I mean it's at least culturally 2010 for the past eight years it's been really growing and more and more people have been it's become a word that people can call themselves yeah where it's I mean maybe at one time vegan wasn't a word that people use and then all of a sudden now here's something that can describe me and it's interesting to see people's perspective who aren't minimalist do you remember when you first like heard about it and what you thought about it yeah it was like right in the so I think it was calling right I'm not sure if you know yeah it was very good friends with Ryan and Josh and I remember coming across either blog post that he had done or a video where he said like I only own 75 things here they are so that was like my first exposure in minimalism and at first there was I think it was here a worship driving me to possibly get rid of things and become a minimalist myself but eventually I realized that I'm just a kind of person who likes to do a lot of things which means I need to own a lot of things yeah I think that we know it is also funny though it's just like the minimalist term that I think catches people but I think if you call yourself an intentionalist I bet you'd probably be like I'm sure like you're very probably thoughtful about all the stuff that you do and you might not go into a activity like rock climbing without really thinking it through yeah exactly and so I'm not the kind of person who owns 100 things and if you go into my apartment you'll be like every single corner of this apartment is full of something but when I walk through the apartment I don't look around thinking those are all just nicknaps that I have you know no intention for owning every single thing is something that I do use yeah it just happens to be a lot of things because I like to mountain bike and figure skate and rock climb and I like playing board games and I like having books and video games you know yeah I think that's yeah yeah it's it's not easy I think to to maybe like even brandish that term because it does come with some some backlash too because a lot of people might see my minimalist apartment video but well I got less stuff than you I'm not a minimalist and I'm like it doesn't matter it doesn't matter the label you use or whatever but I do think that we are changing culturally in terms of when I look at my grandparents and my parents generation it was a generation of people who had sheds with stuff yeah and I feel like I mean maybe this is just all anecdotal but it seems like people are getting rid of this stuff and their sheds they're not leaving a life behind of all this stuff that their kids have to deal with yeah I think and that's one thing that I do credit minimalism with is getting people to think what am I just leaving around that I don't don't need anymore what could I donate what kind of get rid of could I downsize you know the area that I live in the resources I'm consuming and I like that yeah I loved what you said before about I think it was with the the working out about facing kind of that flinch that instinct and not want to do it I don't know if you read the book uh flinch by Julian Smith I think I did a long time ago so long I don't remember yeah it was about yeah he definitely challenges you to take a cold shower in it not sure if you did it but well I'm not from that book but because of Joel Runyon I called Shower for 60 days oh wow yeah how did you like that it was it was great for the first maybe 30 and I mean I'll say this to anyone do it because you leave the shower feeling amazing but I got to the point where I was just like okay I think I've built the self discipline which was the intention for me and now I'm just like this is painful for no reason I exactly I remember thing I've done it before I haven't done 60 days but maybe I did it for like 15 days maybe not even 30 but I remember just thinking this is one less thing to enjoy during the day hot showers in the morning used to be the best thing just like relaxing and comforting but I think that maybe there's a lesson there to be learned about what at least Julian Smith was talking about was facing the flinch and yes think definitely when you're about to hop in that water it's kind of like going to that the vocal lesson where you're like you very easily can turn away and not do it but I'm actually a lifetime of turning away from those experiences that's that literally went through my head because I have always wanted to be musician and I love singing and I don't know how good I was before that but I do love it and I thought to a 70 year old version of myself and I asked myself like does that 70 year old regret the fact that I never taught himself how to sing yes okay I'm going in there because you know it's like breaking up with a girl that you know you can't marry it's painful for probably a few days at least but it's worth it if it puts you on the path to living the life you wanted to live I've had to have before man like tough breakups yeah and talk about like some of the toughest decisions you can make but knowing being so certain that it's not the right relationship for you yeah often I often have this a very similar thought with with like diet or people who have chronic health conditions and sometimes they don't have a whole lot of control over them but I often feel like it's this moving two week window that will fall them to their grave because if you made changes for two weeks they would be incredibly uncomfortable or inconvenient or possibly painful but two weeks from now you could be in a position where it's no longer hard to keep those changes going and they could completely change your life but the problem is that two weeks follows you every single day it's not like two weeks from now it's going to be easy to stop eating junk food quick caffeine or quit smoking or whatever it is and a lot of people just are never able to put in that single two weeks and it could be longer than two weeks you know this is just like a visual metaphor for me right but I mean I'm obsessed with those kind of transformations I love seeing it I love seeing the success story a lot of people think they go to the gym and that people are judging them I think that maybe is the same experience where they're almost kind of pushing that on other people when people just are caring about themselves but I love seeing somebody in the gym that's clearly it's their first day back into it and they're trying to get going love it I love it and then I love seeing the transformations when you can see before after photos even if it's like two months yeah and just because I think I think for so many of us we've tried things and we fail for my entire life I didn't want to be the smallest kid in school anymore and I grew up like the smallest kid the shortest kid the scrawnyest kid and then I kept trying to lift and work out and like as a 13 14 years old because I'm like I don't want to get beat up and then it took me until college to finally get it but I mean all the way up through college that's like I mean all my entire life up into that point up until I'm like 20 years old feeling like I would never be able to make a effective gym habit stick where I never be able to gain weight and then seeing other people do it encourage as you and then once you actually do it yourself just in one thing I think that can change the rest of your life completely yeah well I mean it teaches you that even if it takes while the effort invested is worth it and eventually you'll get changes yeah when you had James in the podcast did he talk about the whole concept of you know being in a room where it's 25 degrees with an ice cube in the table now and if so his book talks about this if you're sitting in a room with an ice cube in the table and it's 25 degrees in the room you can raise the temperature one degree nothing happens you know another degree nothing happens you keep doing it and you could say well raising the temperature and this room is doing nothing to the ice cube then finally from 31 to 32 it starts to melt and it's just like you know a tree building an extensive route network for a very long time before you finally see this little sprout come out of the ground a lot of effort is required sometimes with no apparent results to get that first a little bit of change but then the growth can be exclusive um have there been things in your life where where you've struggled to make a change and then finally you somehow got it to stick you got the habit to collect impossible um I don't know if anything is coming to mind right now for that particular question but is it um so it seems like in terms of like habit change and and building new habits whether it's a early morning routine or anything like that have you struggled with building those kinds of things in your life and I think actually waking up early is a good example for a long time I had to use some very creative and extreme systems to make myself do it and then I eventually just became able to do it well that's interesting too just about once you're able to make a habit stick like going to the gym consistently it's much easier to bring it back up because like always gets in the way you're going to get sick you're going to travel you're going to just for whatever reason get too busy at work and then you can't go to the gym but then once you've been able to say build a consistent habit you know a couple times say for a year straight or six months straight it's a lot easier isn't it to get back into much easier because you've you've kind of already built that groove in your mind so you just kind of have to get right back into it yeah I guess you know personally from experience which what works for you and what doesn't because it's all so I'm caution people to not think that that's always going to happen because sometimes you fall off of a habit and you were doing it for a long time and you think I should be able to start doing this immediately I did it for so long and it doesn't work and you feel guilty about it and then you may just fall off the horse and never try again there's a book that I read a long time ago called the Motivation Hacker by a guy named Nick Winter really cool book pretty short and he talks about this concept called success spirals where whatever you want to do whether it be building a habit you know or building a company or whatever it is you always have to start small you have to prove to yourself that you can perform at a low level and then you sort of spiral up over time you prove yourself you can do it in an intermediate level up to advanced but if you fall off you may need to start at the bottom of the spiral again you may need to build up that habit from scratch again and you may need to use the same training wheels or systems that created restrictions or that basically forced to do things before you can take them off and do it freely again and there's nothing wrong with that there's no embarrassment I think in that sometimes you just have to put the training bills back on the bike yeah maybe yeah it's sometimes we get a little bit too confident or cocky in ourselves and believing that we have somehow figured it out yeah and then realizing oh wait no like this is actually going to take more work than I thought and you're often trying to be a person that used to be even though maybe you've gone through a hardship or you've had an injury or something and you can't actually just jump right back to that level of performance that's okay just build back how do you view the whole culture of hustle today now it's something that obviously has has grown and become more popular lately but I do see kind of a tide pushing against it being like maybe we shouldn't hustle that hard maybe we should actually you know take some breaks and enjoy our time outside of work yeah I think hustle has been fetishized and obviously we need to work very hard but I think there's a lot of people who you know put all the current into that light bulb and that can lead to mental health issues it can lead to burnout and lead to physical health issues so you do have to think about balance and I think that if people focus on identity and they focus on process then they're not going to develop an unhealthy relationship with the hustle because they're going to be thinking about whether or not their health is a priority whether or not the relationships are a priority you know and sometimes you are going to have an imbalance but if you come back and you reevaluate from time to time I think you can sort of shift things around yeah I think it comes out of sacrifice right there is some things that are worth sacrificing yeah and a lot of times we have to sacrifice our time and our energy and our money into something to see it become successful in the way that we want but then I think we probably have to figure out what things aren't worth sacrificing at least in the long run right and you also have to ask yourself what is the reason for hustling right because I literally got a question via email from a student who was really frustrated with himself because he hadn't figured out yet a way to work all cylinders firing for 14 hours a day and we took this question in a podcast but I would bet that this person didn't actually have a personal compelling reason for working 14 hours a day I bet that they think they need to work 14 hours a day because Gary Vaynerchuk talks about how he works 14 hours a day and I can't be successful like Gary V unless I work as many hours a day as he does well just say says for you look like Gary V's life because he's still working 14 hours a day every single day like is that what you want or do you have some of their goal in mind that requires a different amount of work so you may have to work 14 hours a day but you should be doing it because one of your heroes is doing it you should be doing it because you have determined that that is required for your particular goal and I think that we can't necessarily blame Gary V because just like we were talking about before it's the kind of the hero warship a little bit and we all fall prey to it we see somebody and we think oh they're perfect they're ideal that's the life I want to live I want to be a minimalist and get rid of all my stuff and only have the exact things that that other person has and it's like that's crazy your life is totally different and unique and exactly exactly just with the stuff that you have you should also think about how many hours do you want to work a day it's probably not going to be identical to the people that you look up to and watch online and you know I can't put a whole lot of blame on Gary because if you listen to more than just the sound bites he does get nuanced and he often says like you need to sleep you need to prioritize your health you know you also need a hustle but don't destroy your body but I think a lot of people will see a sound bite or it's just like hustle and put in the work and they let that worm get into their brain and they never listen to any of the nuance people don't realize his like the full perspective he's like my audience is people that are complaining about not having what they want out of life yeah it's not the person that loves watching Netflix coming home and watching Netflix or that loves working four hours or eight hours a day he's like I'm not talking to those people I'm talking to the people that are complaining yeah and I think it is probably just the the way that we consume media and the way that we take a headline in and it's hard to disconnect the two then we get so caught up in a sound bite we don't see the full picture and I really do like his message in that area because yeah there are a lot of people whose actions are not aligning with the life that they want to have I have a hundred percent respect for the person who is a hundred percent cool with going to work coming home and watching Netflix I don't live like that but if you're satisfied doing that that's awesome yeah you have made it yeah but if you're just like I really want to be a game developer but then you come home and you never work on learning how to develop games and you're constantly complaining about it now there's a disconnect there now there's a problem that you need to solve is there a question that you get asked most to buy question I get I think the question I get asked most is how do I make myself focus okay or how do I make myself not procrastinate I think that's the question I get far more procrastination and what do you usually tell them use the Pomodoro technique I mean there's all kinds of stuff that I tell them but it's usually you know you're a product of your environment so make sure your environment that doesn't distract you and that is conducive to your work use something like the Pomodoro technique and then from there it really depends on what kind of a person you are and what kind of work you're doing you may not be doing the right kind of work so it's possible you need to get out of it there's this theory and procrastination research called the temporal motivation theory and there's this sort of like procrastination equation that it posits where your motivation to do a task is a product of what is it the expectancy which is the amount of belief you have in your ability to do the task the reward that you get for it a variable called impulsiveness which is basically just how likely are you to get distracted and then the delay between now and getting the reward for the task so if you can sort of take each of these variables and try to tweak it to raise your motivation then you're less likely to procrastinate so with expectancy maybe break the task down into smaller actionable steps if you're just telling yourself I need to write a paper right now your expectancy is pretty low because you don't even know what that really looks like but break it down it's I need to research about this particular person for 20 minutes so I understand their backstory because they're integral to the paper cool that's super doable reward usually the reward in school is set it's grade and it's possibly your entire future but what if you told yourself okay I get to play that video game if I work for an hour now you've created a reward based on the amount of effort you put into this one session or could you make the process of working more enjoyable put on some music or get a study partner to work with or go to your favorite coffee shop just try tweaking little elements around that delay is kind of tough to tweak usually because there's often a due date so usually I'd say think about that one last and then with a pulse of this you got to work on your environment so get some nice headphones like this or go to somewhere where your friends aren't or you don't have a bunch of video games that are just calling to you or you don't have a pill it's calling to you awesome do Tom thank you so much for doing the podcast you know say you's Tom that a Thomas officially good friends now then absolutely you're making the self help and self development interesting fun and you're definitely bringing something special and important to the space so thank you for your work I love your videos thank you and also bring in lommas to the space lommas that's it um can you point people to where to go oh yeah send them youtube.com slash Thomas Frank or Tom frankly on the two social media networks that I use twitter and instagram co-man thanks for doing the show absolutely thanks for thank you for having you on it you blew it you blew it it's over thanks for listening hope you guys had a great holiday excited for 2019 you guys got any new years resolutions I don't know I'm asking you guys question like this is rhetorical and you can answer um you can if you want to support this show continue to keep it ad free you can go to patreon.com slash matt deevella I've got a lot of videos and I'm making new ones all the time behind the scenes about filmmaking lifestyle design a peak behind how I make the podcast and all the good stuff you can get it at patreon.com slash matt deevella good luck with those new years resolutions and I'll see you next year
