# The Rat Race
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rqARmtbo3KA
http://www.groundupshow.com

You can get caught up in the rat race even as an entrepreneur. Growing your audience, creating for clicks & focusing on metrics can all have you lose touch with producing meaningful work.

Melyssa Griffin​ felt this first hand after building a successful business online. After each step in her career she'd ask herself the same question: "What's next?" In this clip she discusses the moment she reset her life's focus, creates priorities & develops future business goals.

Check out the full conversation where we discuss the importance of building a brand with integrity, the psychology behind why we quit & how to create a successful digital product.

Find out more about Melyssa:  http://www.melyssagriffin.com
**Keywords:** podcast, ground up, the ground up show, matt davella, melyssa griffin, minimalism, documentary, film, filmmaker, director, a documentary about the important things, 
**Date:** 2017-10-30

## Transcript
 And always became this thing where it was like, what's next, what's next, what's next? You grew this business that was thriving and was doing really well and you were making an income off of it. But in a lot of ways, it felt like the rat race that someone might have in a corporate nine to five world where you're not exactly focused on the priorities of it and why am I doing this, why is this fulfilling, what is the end goal here and am I just going for likes or for clicks or for downloads? So what was that realization for you? How did you come about that? Right, so 2015, I for about half the year, I did my web design studio, then I transitioned to courses and they started doing really well and I was like, well, I could do this full time, this will be my new thing. 2016, things just completely shut up, we did over a million dollars in revenue with courses and I started the year thinking, I want to help people and I want to teach people and I want to help them grow their own businesses because this has been so fun and fulfilling for me. And then it turned into this thing of, well, now that I'm at this level, I need to go for the next level. And now that I hit this school, I need to shoot for the next school and it always became this thing where it was like, what's next, what's next? And never taking time to think, is this actually fulfilling me and I really helping people and I still remembering all the reasons why I started this whole business and blog in the first place or am I forgetting what my real purpose is? And it kind of happened when I was at a conference last year actually just went to the same conference again a couple weeks ago Was that this conference, this spoken word artist named in Q, I think he lives in LA, he was performing and he talks a lot about kind of this type of stuff. It talks a lot about politics and about how we get caught up in the rat race and how we need to remember kind of our connection and that that's not just what life's all about money and status and all of that kind of stuff. And I remember just sitting in this auditorium and everyone else was like, hey, so good, oh my gosh, that's guys great. And I was like trying to hide the fact that I was bawling because it hit me and I was like, oh my god, I am that person and I'm the person that I never thought I would become and never wanted to be that I was so focused on the growth and the comparison being the best and and all those types of things. And so remember at that conference during lunch, my friends were like, do you want to go get something to eat because that's what we would do each break during the conference and I was like, no, I'm going to take this by myself. And I walked to a CVS, bought a little yellow notebook and a pen, bought a water and I walked to a park and started a table by myself and just wrote out everything that I'd been feeling over the past year about how I wasn't being honest with my identity and how I was getting wrapped up in something that didn't feel like me. And and started to make plans for how I could change that about myself and about my business and what I focus on. And since then that was that was about a year ago. Since then we've made a lot of shifts. We've started focusing more on giving back and doing charitable things and also just focusing less on the numbers and more on the people and how are we helping people and how are we creating community and a deep intimate way. And the money comes, like it still, it still comes and that's not even a factor anymore. It's kind of like when you start focusing on the things that actually matter, at least this is my experience, then the things that you want or the things that you need will come anyways. And you'll be happy because you're focusing on your true purpose and true mission and your business will still be growing. So that's been my experience with just kind of coming back to this is what I actually need in my life. This is what's actually fulfilling for me versus getting wrapped up in that, like you said, the rat race.
