# Ground Up 035 - Make An Impact w/ Chris Temple & Zach Ingrasci
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rv88d23HZug
http://www.groundupshow.com

Chris Temple & Zach Ingrasci are the filmmakers behind the Netflix documentaries Living On One Dollar & Salam Neighbor. They’ve made their name by immersing themselves fully into their films to learn as much as they can about their subjects. Whether it’s living on one dollar a day for 2 months in Guatemala or spending 30 days with Syrian Refugees. These guys are the real deal.

In our conversation we talk about the mindset you need to have heading into big projects, can you be happy while living in poverty, and where the line between your creative field & entrepreneurship blur.

Find them at http://www.livingonone.org
**Keywords:** ground up, podcast, the ground up show, film, filmmaking, living on one, living on one dollar, salam neighbor, make an impact, impact, chris temple, zach ingrasci, documentary, documentaries, los angeles, interview, wisdom, quotes, knowledge, 
**Date:** 2017-11-29

## Transcript
 We didn't actually even set out to create an impact. We really just set out to learn. And that's been for us a philosophy that we've continued to apply to every film as we move forward from that first experience is going into it, not with that preconceived notion of what the impact might be but going in and really learning and asking how can I help. And making films is such a cool way of doing that because the whole process of documentary filmmaking for us is about asking these questions that we don't have answers to yet. What's stopping you from pursuing your craziest, most ambitious idea? Chris Temple and Zach and Gracie are the documentary filmmakers behind living on one and they had every excuse in the world not to pursue these ideas. They had no money, little connections and a summer between semesters to relax. But that's not what they did. Instead, curiosity pushed them to Pennia, Blanca, Guatemala, to live on a dollar a day and experience firsthand what it's like to live below the poverty line. They documented the whole experience and eventually turned it into the Netflix documentary living on one dollar. Then they did it again with Salam neighbor. They were the first filmmakers to be given a tent in a Syrian refugee camp. And what they witnessed and what they got to explore was really remarkable. In our conversation, we talk about the mindset that you need heading into any of these big projects. We also talk about the relationship between happiness and poverty, something that a lot of people fans of minimalism have asked me about. And we also explore the relationship between your creative field and entrepreneurship. Where does that blur when do you put that entrepreneurship on? And then when do you tap into your creative or in your creative field? This one is really for anybody looking to start something big with little to no money at all. But before we get into that, I gotta say, last week was a pretty big week. We launched Get the Rock on Matt's podcast. If you've been following along, you know that I've been trying to get the rock on my podcast, doing the Rock Johnson Superstar. I've been trying to get him to come on the podcast so I can talk about his ground up story. It's my crazy ambitious idea. And it wasn't completely successful in that we did not get the Rock's attention, but what I did saw see was pretty amazing. A lot of you guys reached out, hundreds of messages and tweets to the rock. Trying to get his attention and share, get the rock on Matt's podcast.com. So that alone was amazing to see a lot of you guys who listened to the podcast to come out and really be a part of this journey with me. I am not discouraged. I have not lost faith. I knew from the very beginning that this was going to be a crazy, almost impossible thing to achieve. So right now we're heading into phase two. Where it gets a little bit bigger, a little bit weirder, and the ideas go a little bit more outside the box. So stay tuned, and I will give you updates along the way on future episodes and feel free to tap back into get the rock on Matt's podcast.com. I'll provide updates there as well. But now I think it's a great time to head into my conversation with Chris and Zach. Really enlightening a great opportunity for me as a filmmaker to see how these two guys are doing it in really a different way than I am. So I think you're going to like it and get a lot of value out of it. Enjoy the show. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matt Diavella and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary Minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. Guys, thanks for coming on the show. Thanks for having us. I'm excited to talk with you. I feel like there's a lot of overlap and what we do. I mean, you got a couple of docs on Netflix now, so you guys have been in the game for a while. I just got ours up last year. For people who haven't heard of the work that you do, give me a little bit of background for the people listening. Yeah, so Zach and I have two feature films on Netflix called Living On One Dollar and Salam Neighbor. And we'd like to embed into different global issues and tell the story in a really authentic way. So we've got our production companies called Living On One, it's the two of us as the core team members, and then we're starting to grow slowly as allowed by the finances. And I think of the core, what we hope these films can do is spark real measurable impact. And that can mean very different things depending on the story and the film. But, you know, Chris and I both are what we call accidental filmmakers. We actually studied economics. We met in college with this kind of shared passion of understanding global issues and getting, you know, really getting deep into sustainable development. And we still bring that passion with us as filmmakers now. I think when we think about what truly matters a lot of times we end up back at this point of making an impact. That's really what why we're doing this. Yeah, I think when I think about when I first got into filmmaking. Well, I guess when I originally got into it it was more for making an impact on my bank account. And I was like freelance doing weddings and bar mitzvahs and a lot of stuff that wasn't really meaningful. And then for me, minimalism was a chance to actually make an impact and try to create something that could change people's lives. And sometimes you can do that with just a documentary, with just a song, with just one piece of art. But a lot of times, if you go a little bit deeper, there needs to be some kind of call to action. Was that something that was obvious to you guys from the beginning? Or was that something you learned once you made your first doc? It definitely wasn't obvious to us because as Zach was saying there, when we started out, we didn't actually even intend to make our first film living on one dollar. We set out to spend a summer living on a dollar day ourselves while doing research on how families are surviving at that level. And I think it comes naturally to our generation. We should film some of it and put it into video blogs or release it online. And when those videos, these short video blogs started doing really well, that's what inspired us to say, hey, maybe this could be something more, maybe this could move into an actual documentary. But we didn't actually know what the story would be until after the experience. We didn't actually even set out to create an impact. We really just set out to learn. And that's been for us a philosophy that we've continued to apply to every film as we've moved forward from that first experience is going into it, not with that preconceived notion of what the impact might be, but going in and really learning and asking how can I help and recognizing the people or experts in their own lives in this experience, whether they're living in extreme poverty or refugees or experience minimalist. And we as filmmakers have so much to learn from that and need to keep that open mind. Yeah, that's a great point in terms of how you position the project from the beginning because a lot of times when you start out, it's like, what can I get out of this? How can I grow? How can this, and it all is about yourself? But then you get to a stage I think in your development, at least for most people where you realize that's not fulfilling in and of itself, and you need to start asking bigger questions like, how can I help? How can I give back? What can I share? In terms of the beginning of your guy's story, I do want to kind of go back. What was life like for you guys growing up before college? What did it look like for you? Well, we both grew up on opposite coast. Pretty different upbringings in the sense that I grew up in an island, an extremely liberal island. You know, I shared a wall with a horse, and there was a guy living in a teapy and my godfather lived in a barn and we built our house on the property and there were sheep and goats, and it was an actual island. It wasn't like New York City. It was an actual island. The image island across from Seattle. It sounds like our next film should just be made about brain virgin. It sounds amazing. But, you know, it was a privilege upbringing. I got to travel with my godfather. I got to see the world and that really sparked an interest in what was happening outside of this island. It felt like such a bubble. And I think I knew from a very early age that I wanted to get out of that and came into college. I'm not with a ton of experience internationally, but a desire to learn a lot more. That's where I met Chris, who had actually had a bit more experience than I had. Yeah, and I grew up in a, I mean, about a polar opposite type of community in some ways. In Connecticut, it was very conservative. Just outside New York City. The only career paths I knew existed were financing consulting growing up and then before going to college, I decided to take a gap year for me that that was really pushed kind of the boundaries of what I thought was possible and travel and in learning, experiential learning, especially around the world. And then we, Zach and I lived like a couple doors down from each other, freshman year of college. And we were taking international relations class together and really started kind of throughout college using that moment in college to experiment with, with travel, with different work that we wanted to do because the best time to do it is in college is you have very low expectations. You've got great resources at your fingertips great people to collaborate with. And if you fail, you're still in college. And so our hope was to kind of create ourselves a path by the time that we left college we could actually have a job. And then we had this kind of weight what moment in college when we started, we heard that 1.1 billion people live on less than a dollar a day. And Chris and I, my upbringing were so different but neither of us had experience with anything like that. And we learned as much as possible. We found this incredible research that showed the extreme poor actually incredibly innovative with their money that kind of blew our minds. And we felt like we, we reached a limit with what we could learn at a university. And felt like we had to just dive in. And that's really what our summer in Guatemala living under a dollar day ourselves became. Was our kind of different approach at learning. And it wasn't about going to make an impact or help in Guatemala. It was literally how do we talk to the people who are going through this. How do we, again, like Chris said, recognize that people are experts in their own lives and learn from them. And making films is such a cool way of doing that because the whole process of documentary filmmaking for us is about asking this question. These questions that we don't have answers to yet. And really trying to learn as much as possible. What year was that? When you guys, what summer was that when you decided to do this? So we did the experience in the summer of 2010. And then when we got back, those video blogs been doing really well. And we basically learned how to make a documentary with over the following two years. But it wasn't just us. You know, we had Sean and Ryan. These two talented friends of mine from high school. Sean was an amazing editor. Ryan helped us shoot the film and lived with this experience through us. And so none of these films are like just Chris and I making these things. They're always these bigger families. So yeah, when you went out to do this, it wasn't documentary. It wasn't in the forefront of your mind. I mean, maybe in the back of your head, like that would be cool. But it was, let's just do these video blogs. And you start putting it out where on YouTube, I guess? YouTube. And then we got featured on the global homepage of YouTube and had millions of views on these little videos. And this was kind of, you know, before, yeah, a million views was nothing. But now it's like, yeah. We were really excited. It's funny if you watch these video blogs now. They're actually still up on our YouTube channel. It's a learning experience that you can see that, you know, that's the type of quality that happens when you first start creating content. You know, and what we were doing, it was actually we were releasing a video each week while we were living under a dollar a day. So these were these videos we're edited while sleeping on a dirt floor, while with fleas, while, you know, eating only 900 to 1000 calories a day and experiencing some of the challenges of life and extreme poverty. There's something about that that's really interesting where it's like, also anything can happen because you're uploading this. How do you, you guys get an internet connection you're going into town to help you? We really go into town. And a neighbor of ours had stolen power off, like a main power grid and created this, like, janky outlet that we could charge our batteries and our little mud hut. So, you know, thanks. Don't know. Shut up, the tone up. Yeah. What I love about it is like, the idea is so simple. When did that come about? Just, hey, let's go to Guatemala and live on a dollar a day for two months. It's pretty extreme, but also, in effect, it's really, really a simple idea. Yeah. And I think that's what, you know, what happens with these projects is the idea was forced formulated around that, again, that weight, what moment the Zach was talking about of hearing that a billion people around the world are living on a dollar a day and wanting to learn more. And then that's the core. And then from there, it started developing into this idea. How do we get a more personal experience and perspective on what this is? How do we research on how families are living at that level? And the project really developed over about ten months. So, you know, it went through all these different iterations throughout the, and proposals throughout the way because every time we tried to apply for money, we would rewrite it a little bit. We'd try it a different way. And we actually applied for financing from 12 different places and got rejected from every single one of them along the way. And so, at a certain point, it had thought that the project wasn't going to happen. There was probably a month-long period where we decided, okay, hey, you know, that was a great idea. Maybe next summer we can go at it. And thankfully, at the last second we got about a third of the financing we were asking for, which was essentially just flights to Guatemala and a dollar a day each while we were there and that's what we had it up to do it with. That's crazy. And so, it was also pretty simple in terms of the crew. It was YouTube guys and two other filmmakers. All shot on a 5D and a 7D. Is that right? Two cameras. Yeah, it was a 5D Mark II and a 7D. And then we just used a little Zoom H2N for all audio. You clip that on top of the cameras? We were just holding it, actually. Most of the time. Yeah. Like, occasionally we would put it up on like a mini tripod during interviews. Yeah. And actually, if you look really closely in some of the footage, you'll see in the corner as occasionally just that little red flashing light from the Zoom H2N that, it's crazy because I think about it the time. Yeah. Even as a filmmaker myself, I didn't notice that. But those are the things that killed me in my own work. Yeah. To him at that red light, that red light. Yeah. Actually, when we did minimalism, we interviewed Dan Harris and on his shoulder throughout the entire interview. There was a piece of hair that I didn't see because it was just myself and I had a grip that was just helping me out in the shoot. And it just destroyed me inside because the light was shining through. And there's just big hair on his shoulder. So for the trailer, I was so neurotic to actually mask it out in after a while. It was like maybe five seconds, but it was every single frame. It was 24 frames per second. So it was, and I was actually going to do it for the feature. And I was like, you know what? I can't. I can't. Harris part of the story. There has been anyone ever noticed? No. Absolutely not. Nobody has ever said anything. But those are the things I kill you. But like, I think there are also the things that distract you from the story and from what's actually important about it. Yeah. Walk me through the actual experiment that you guys did because there's a little bit more than just a dollar day because those aren't the real circumstances that these people are going through in these towns. Yeah, so we knew from the beginning we never be able to truly replicate the lives of the extreme poor. I mean, you know, we're coming in with so much more privilege and just from a different experience. But we wanted to at least simulate some key aspects that we could highlight in this story. One first being that it's actually not a dollar day. It's on average a dollar a day. So we split up our, the 56 dollars each into random increments. And we actually drew from a hat every morning. So some days we'd have zero dollars to survive on. Some days we'd have nine dollars to survive on. And it's replicating how the majority of people living at that level have informal jobs. And they don't know when they're going to get paid next, which makes your life life so much harder because you don't, you can't really plan for these big things. Which actually forces the extreme poor to be really innovative for their money. And the second thing that we did is we actually took out a small microfinance loan. We were trying to understand if we wanted to be farming radishes, how we would, as someone living at that level, how we would be able to use a small amount of money to get something started, but then also have to pay that back. And that was something that we were really interested in because microfinance, the provision of small loans to the extreme poor was something that was kind of new on the scene and a really interesting new model and development. And what did you guys learn from your experience there from the people that you met in the relationships that you built? Because you did get to have doors open to you and to really meet people in the community. Beyond what Zach was saying that the extreme poor incredibly innovative to survive every day. They have to be to survive with how their budgeting money was truly fascinating. People were using four or five different financial tools to manage money, everything from buying an asset to save it and sell it later to doing these rotating credit clubs with friends. Like our buddy Tona, who set up our electricity every week he would save $10. He would meet up with his friends. They would all bring each person ten different people would bring $10. And one person would take $100 home. And it's because they none of them had access to traditional savings accounts. None of them had access to banks. So they were finding a way to save money and create that big sum of money that they could then buy something that would really benefit the family. So he bought a stove that piped the smoke out of his kitchen and prevented his wife from breathing smoke all day. And these were these things that I just never expected. And it was totally blown away. And we left this experience feeling instead of really inspired and empowered that if we give a hand up to someone they can really grab onto that and something like micro finance could actually really benefit someone in this experience. And something that might be interesting for some of your viewers as well. I thought about poverty only in terms of money, poverty is a lack of money. But going into it and going through the experience you realize that it's actually about so much more poverty is a lack of choice. It's a lack of opportunity. And we are wrestling with a question while we are down there that actually one of our university professors posed to us is somebody, say a friend of ours, I have friends like this who have chosen to not work and live by the beach in a van and serve for or spend their life in technically in poverty. But are they actually the extreme poor in that way because they chose that type of life? And for us, I think when we coming out of it we really saw that poverty is about the lack of choice because that's the most frustrating, the most painful part of for families that are living at that level is to have such limited opportunity and to always be right on that edge where one week without work can set you back. One little disaster can force you to pull your kids out of school. One of our friends there was this small boy, Chino, incredible kid, he's 12 years old and he, when his dad got sick and couldn't work for a month he had to pull Chino out of school to work in the fields and help support the eight family members and then Chino never got back in a school and you look at that one little thing that then forced like an entire generational issue of keeping this family second poverty. So yeah, it was a really, really illuminating experience and something that we hope that people explore in the film. One of the biggest questions that we get in terms of minimalism is well, what do you say to people who have nothing already? Who want something to be happy to feel content? What did you guys experience in seeing these people living in extreme poverty in terms of well-being and happiness? Like were many of them still happy or were generally their lives filled more with stress? It's an interesting question because a lot of people that we met I think experience joy in a more profound way than I did. They truly value their time with their families and even small events in their life and I tried to learn from that a lot. At the same time, their lives were so stressful. You're constantly thinking and calculating about how all these tiny increments of money and are going to not only buy food and put it on your table but also invest in the future, keep your kids in school. People like Tono who are literally the same age as us already had two kids and had to be thinking about what's their future? It's an interesting paradox between truly appreciating things and also just living this incredibly stressful life. I think some of them, again, and Tono went beyond appreciation and showed us to me what true generosity actually is where we'd known him for about three or four weeks in the community we're halfway through our time in Pennyblanca. Basically every day he was coming over to my house. I want to cook you a meal. I want to introduce you to my family. We are wrestling with not wanting to take something from somebody who is living at that level. We kept declining and eventually he's like, okay, just come over and meet my family. I won't cook you any meal, don't worry. We arrived there and of course he prepared this incredible meal of public, which is this Guatemalan tomato-based soup. It's like a delicacy there. The last time he'd had it was at his own wedding. We sat there and we just enjoyed probably the best meal of my life to this day because there was just so much joy for him to be sharing that together. That was true generosity was giving from what you don't have and it's not just giving away extra stuff that you no longer need. It was this lesson of being able to truly give from that place. Throughout the next three to four weeks we saved up out of our little dollar day budget and a small gesture to have him and his family over on the last day to cook them a meal of public at the very end and we have that experience back at our house. And that felt while it was maybe $20 in total that was one of the most wonderful moments of my life. A summer well spent like for a couple college kids like holy shit to be able to have this experience it's got to be life-changing. I want to talk about the impact that was made in Pena Blanca and is a Pena Blanca. I want to talk about that experience and the impact that was made there but before we get to that it's really about how you guys got this documentary made, how you got it seen by people, how you got it on Netflix and the steps that it took. So what was that process of like you've got this series now on YouTube and it's got some attention so you see that people are actually interested in this idea and how do you turn it into a documentary and how do you get it on Netflix? Yeah, so it was a long journey. I mean these films aren't made overnight. With 300 hours of footage, it's a 53-minute film. So that seems like a crazy difference. I think at first we had to convince ourselves it was worth our time. We neither of us were convinced that film would ever be a career path for us or a sustainable way to live your life. I think we just recently convinced ourselves that. Yeah, I try to do that every week. You could do this, man. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But luckily we were surrounded by some pretty incredible people and those mentors have continued to be huge parts of our lives. They saw the video blogs online. They literally housed Shawn who was editing the film in one of like, he was sleeping in like a production studio in Venice who was like, under his editing desk. Because he didn't want to go home because he was living in this like commune that had flees. Second summer flees for him. And I think those people have been critical throughout. People who are experienced filmmakers who are experienced storytellers have lent so much time to us. And we try and now at any opportunity to give that back. And so we went from, okay, then we were convinced that this film was a good idea. And then it was just about making it. I mean, literally I think we had 86 different versions of this film. You know, it was so terrible at first. At first, you know, at the time and this has been a huge learning process. We had an idea what the film should be. And it wasn't really in service of the story. We were like, this is what we want to say. And we will only, like this is, this is it. And the footage didn't really support that. The story didn't really support that. It was a film where we weren't in it. It was just kind of interviews with about the financial diaries and financialize of our friends there. And it was just wasn't a compelling narrative. It wasn't, it didn't have a motion. It didn't have an arc. It was just an interview shot after interview shot. Yeah, it was. And then it might be interesting for some people. Right. I can't believe it. So it was like, oh, this is the best thing ever. But that wasn't most people's entry point. Most people are coming in. Never having even thought about these issues. And so it was a journey in like, what is the story here? And what's the story in the footage? And you come away and oftentimes in the editing room, you really have no idea. You have to rewatch every hour and kind of re totally think through what this piece is. And that was kind of the next big step. And as we found that arc, it became much more powerful. And then Chris and I began to just reach out as much as possible and get a family behind it. That would propel it. We brought on some pretty big executive producers, who we owe so much to. Mike Lang was a former CEO of Miramax. David Dawes, who is a former executive producer of Anderson Cooper 360. Jeff Klein, like these people believed in it and then started to like, you know, help us think through. Okay, how do we get this out into the world? And so we hit this moment of, we premiered the film the week of graduation from college. And, you know, this is for some, we're showing it is showing it around. And we got a, we got a really good reaction from, I don't know if people were just lying to us because they were our friends. Because those are the only people in the audience. But at least gave us enough, hope and confidence to say, you know, okay, maybe we don't take a traditional job for a second. Maybe we see what we can do with this film. Let's give it. We, we said we give it six months. It was like, let's take this film. Let's try to show it around. Let's, you know, let's kind of tweak a couple more things in it. And let's see if, by hearing the stories and the experiences that we went through, that people would be inspired, especially students would be inspired to make a difference around extreme poverty. So that's where the impact side really started getting focused was as we were graduating and moving out. Like, okay, we know the story. We know how it's moving certain people and we know the audience we want to reach. So we all moved into Zack's parents house up on, back in the image island. And, you know, with the goats and the sheep and the whole experience, and worked there for about three months to kind of finish up the film and actually plan at the time a national tour. So we, we knew that we had no marketing budget. We knew no one was going to be interested in watching this student film. So traditional festivals weren't really interested in the film at the time. So we had to take a very self-distribution model. I don't know. Yeah, you submitted to a couple. Yeah, we submitted to Sundance, clearly. Yeah, we did that too. We submitted to like so many. I think we spent like $5,000 on submitting to film festivals. And it was just hit or mess. Like some would let you in. Others wouldn't. It's cool to have that laureate or the laurel, whatever they call it. But at the end of the day, it doesn't really propel you for it. If you're not in Sundance or one of these big festivals. Right. And there's other approaches. You know, for us, the audience was young people who wanted to make a difference. And so we lived in a 1978 school bus for four months. And literally just went from school to school. Raising enough money to fill the gas tank. And it got a ton of exposure. We were all the sun on Charlie Rose. You know, we got like a little bit of hype and got it to Hulu and did this weird two week release on Hulu. That was like their most successful documentary release ever. And we realized that online it was going to do it was going to do really well. Like this was going to reach people. The people we wanted to reach were watching things online. And so then we got on to the iTunes. It was number one in iTunes. And then Netflix hot. And then it got featured on Netflix. And that's really when things went. And we were able to raise, you know, almost a million dollars for this community. Just through like $17,000 dollars donations. Like it was, you know, like our. It really interesting point. Yeah. Like 10 like small donations. Just thousands and thousands of them. That's unreal. And this was, I think Netflix was probably a little bit different. Then I mean, I feel like now it's a very customized and personal to each person. And you can be trending. It was kind of that trending thing. But it was also, it was on the homepage of Netflix. Is that right? Yeah. So in, it released in January of 2015. And at the time, there wasn't as many Netflix originals. There were only a couple out there really house of cards. Was the, the big one that they were hanging their hat on. And so they were still featuring other people's content. Which doesn't really happen as much anymore. So in that, that top home page banner. It was house of cards. And then it was living on one dollar. And we would just look to each other in that moment. And, you know, that's a, that's a dream moment. Our website crashed from too much traffic coming into it. And you could see and, and you could see the donation numbers. You could then immediately, you know, within the next couple months. Change happening in the community. And we often talk about, for us, the most important part, Outcomes not outputs. And outputs are just the numbers of views on Netflix or the amount of money raised. But it's not an outcome unless it's actually changing somebody's life and it's living an extreme poverty unless someone like Tono has access to clean water unless a kid graduates through high school and gets a job that they're happy with. You know, these types of indicators that we can look at to, to really measure the impact of our films. You guys had it all set up and ready though. That's amazing because you had to be ready for that moment where you got incredibly lucky Where, you know, you busted your ass. You got the film done. And then it made it to the, the banner of Netflix. Now you have millions of people flooding in. If you didn't have to donate but inside up for this community, there would have been, you know, hundreds of thousands of dollars lost. And the partnerships that we needed, right? So all the money has gone, you know, to two really amazing partners. One is a whole planet foundation which does micro finance work in Guatemala. The other is my and families that actually is working the community for many years. And it's all done anonymously because we go back every year. We don't want to be tied to that money. It would change our relationships dramatically. So it's, you know, it's all being done by professionals who have, who have worked there. We didn't want to reinvent the wheel. So those partnerships took a long time to, to create as well. And we were kind of lucky that we had these, this kind of year of, of nomadic traveling before it, it really had a huge exposure. And those were important. What was the story of getting it on Netflix? Did you guys just like email them? Okay guys, we got a documentary here. There were some levels of that for a while. There was, you know, we had like a tweet schedule that we just tweet at Netflix. It's never got a single reply. It doesn't work. But we, no, it doesn't work. So don't try that. But I mean, maybe if you had enough accounts, I don't know. I still, maybe the next film. And then, you know, again, as Zach was saying, like you build these families around the film. And so through different executive producers and others, we were able to actually get a distributor to sign onto the film. We worked with Gravity Toss Ventures on it, who were between them and our executive producers were eventually able to get, you know, get somebody to sign off on it. And they, you know, did give us a small US deal initially. And then when it went really well in the US, they then extended us an offer for an international film. Then being Netflix. And I think, yeah. But as a filmmaker, you should realize, and a lot of people as a filmmaker just want to like, hand off your project. And be like, I'm done with this. I'm moving on to my next project. But it really is up to you. No one's going to care about your film as much as you do. And, you know, all those little things, getting on Charlie Red, like all of that was, and a lot of ways created by energy that we put into it. And we really believe kind of as our model of moving forward is, you know, we create, you know, everything is about the film, the story, and creating the best product possible. And using that as an anchor point. So really, it's about finding your center and for us, that's these feature films. And then using that, because that's what you want people to get to. And they'll be talking about, but you can do a lot of creative things around it. And, you know, you'll leave, like I said, we had 300 hours of footage. So, and only 53 minute film. So we did an education series. Like, teachers were a huge market, like a huge opportunity for us. They were like six minute videos. We did a curriculum, you know, with our newest film, we've done a VR film, we've done, we worked with Google on a big project. You know, there's like all these extra pieces, but they all kind of feed back into that core center, which is what you want people to get to, so that they'll eventually, they'll make an impact. And, you know, building out from the center is kind of where we've kind of fallen, kind of as a model moving forward. Was there, what's next moment, once the film gets on Netflix? That's also a long period of time from 2010, when you made it to 2015, when it gets on Netflix. It's just when you guys finally start to make a little bit of money from it, or had you gotten some before, like five years of the long time, like what's going on during that period, where you don't have a film on Netflix? Yeah, I mean, and even once the film gets on Netflix, it takes them a long time to actually pay you any minute. It's going to be about five months. Yeah, it works through a number of different distributors, things like that. But, no, I mean, it had been a process of keeping ourselves really keeping ourselves a float to that point. But, like you said, by the time it hit Netflix, it had been so long that we actually didn't really think anything would happen. And we were like, oh, that's just like, the film is up there, and we don't really need to worry about it anymore. We can now focus on the next projects. And we didn't even really, you know, we put up a Facebook post about the Netflix release, and then checked email like three hours later and realized that everything had gone wrong Yeah, it all gone right. Yeah. But, and so there was definitely that moment. And I think kind of as we transition into our next film, as coming out of living on one dollar, we started to see a model that as a nonprofit production company, we are fiscally sponsored. If we could convince people to invest in the film, we could create these films that would then make even more of an impact on the issue we're trying to we're talking about. So we have a model right now where if somebody gives us a dollar to create a film, we've turned it through a donation. We've turned it in about four dollars of impact on the issue that the film is about through the different impact partners that are doing this work on the ground. And so for us, that sort of our model we think can keep us sustaining is, you know, the films make some revenue, but then also we have some donors who really want to make an impact on these issues and can trust us to tell that story and really amplify their return on that dollar. How does that work? The one dollar to four, I'm a little bit confused. And so your company is actually a nonprofit company. And I'm curious about how you guys take a salary from that obviously, you have to pay the bills and you got to eat and do all this stuff. The one thing is that for me heading into minimalism, I wanted to just make my money back. Like I was like, because I put 15,000 into it of my own money, Josh and Ryan invested a lot more than that. And we had partners that helped us out that pitched in money as well. So we were all putting ourselves out there to make this thing. And I was like, I just want to make, well, it wasn't even make my money back. I just want to get this message out there, period, like whatever, I'll take the hit that's fine if we can get it out there. But then I was like, it would be a dream come true. If I could get that 15 grand back. But that's not a sustainable way to live. Like you can't just level out every time you do a project, you do need to have a little bit of profit. So I'm curious about how that structure works with the non-profit, with the contributions and how you turn that into action. Yeah, so I wouldn't necessarily use our journey as a model for other people. No, but we, so the non-profit is living on one. Our mission is to create more equitable and sustainable world through films. We work with partners who actually work on the ground. And those are the people that we fundraise for with the release of the film, right? So we raise over a million dollars for those partners. And that's the four dollars of impact Chris is talking about. But our core, we have like a small group of core donors who support our work, understanding that for every dollar they put donate to a film, more money will be created in the long run. So they're kind of investing in this concept that films can really be a spark for impact and change and reach millions of people. And we, we fund our nonprofit in a multiple, kind of multiple different ways. as any non-profit works, we're kind of the executive director. So we have a salary. We have an amazing woman, Jenna, who just moved from DC to L.A. three weeks ago, who's directing our marketing. And it's amazing. We have a couple founders, Sean's been a big part of that, and Hannah, and these all these people. But, you know, speaking, actually is one of our biggest sources of revenue for our nonprofit, donations is a big part of that, and then revenue from the film as well, and then kind of merchandise as well. So you're kind of an entrepreneur as a filmmaker. Really, to be sustainable, as an independent filmmaker, it's really tough to just, like, you know, you're a business owner. Right. And so we have all these different forms of revenue that feed into that, we're just paid our own salary through that. Yeah. And that's what it's like today for somebody who's trying to create their own work. That's the one thing that I've been trying to build as well is like, I want to keep doing this. I love it. I think in a certain, certain terms, I need to be self-reliant, and I can't be rely on other people's audience. If I can build up an audience, it likes what I make, and then I can then I can create whatever I want, as long as it fills that audience, and they enjoy it. But that's, that's kind of the new self-reliance of today. It's like, it's not learning how to build a fire or build shelter. It's like, you need to build a brand, and an audience, and it's like, I don't think there's anything wrong with that, and you have to understand those challenges, and what it takes to make it. I like it. and we got lucky with the timeline that we're talking about here, for the first two years of editing the film, we were still in college, so we didn't need to pay ourselves anything. It was just us surviving. We thought, just having enough money to eat at the dining hall was great. So, it was really just a passion project for those first two years, and then as we moved out of college, and actually needed to start making money, that's when money started kind of coming in a bit more, to keep ourselves afloat, but we had that amazing buffer zone for that experimentation, and so I think for people who are one in school, that's the best time to be creating as much content as possible, while we film school or undergrad, and then two, if you're in another job, and you're thinking about trying to get into filmmaking, play with filmmaking, while you're doing it, don't quit your job, and then start day one saying, I'm now a filmmaker, like play with it, create more, see where it takes you, so that you can get some of those failures out of the way, before you're relying on it for your money. Yeah, that'll allow you to be more creative, I think, too. Yeah, I think that doing it in school is huge advice, because a lot of people that I knew in school weren't really that active outside of what was on the syllabus. It was like, just do the work in the class, and then that's it. But it was like, there was, I did it a few other people that I knew was like, they had a passion for filmmaking, or a passion for graphic design, and they just put themselves into that, and every spare hour that they had, like, you're right that buffer. It was my junior senior year, when I first started to make just a little bit of money, it was like $100 to shoot an event, and cut a videos, probably made $5 an hour, but I was like, this is way better than working at a coffee shop, this is incredible. But it was the buffer. When you graduate, if you expect to be able to survive and pay rent on $5 an hour, it's going to be really challenging. So it's like, take that time while you can, and then like you said, for those that aren't in school, it's played with it, in the, in your spare time, but it's, it's also, it's going to be challenging. Like that. Like that. To me, I feel like would be very difficult. If you have a full-time job to make that transition from like, hey, I want to be a filmmaker, I want to pursue this art that I'm passionate about. It's definitely possible. So many people have done it, but it's going to be a lot of work. And I, not to tutor on horns, but in college, we were like the extreme version of doing things outside of school. I mean, a network to provide students with opportunities to get involved with micro finance. We were organizing conferences in Kenya, Spain, and Columbia, like we had put on this simultaneous class with a Stanford professors that 75 universities could like, stream into this, this class that we just felt like wasn't being taught. And through all those activities, we built a network. And those hard skills are important as filmmaking, as filmmakers, but like that network is what has sustained us. And really has allowed us to build that family around these films, because it's really tough. If you have even an incredible product, and no one knows about it, you know, it's really about finding, you just start emailing people. Yeah. You had to show them what you're doing, and really start building that network as soon as possible, because it's so important. Especially now, when, like, as you start this podcast, having people to talk to, and to, to show your work, and you know, believe it's in you, is just the only way of succeeding. I was actually going to say exactly that, I was going to say advice, start a podcast, or start a blog, or what, I mean, blogs, it might be a little bit late in the game. But anyway, start it for not the sake of, I'm trying to build an audience, or I'm trying to do this in this, and become famous, or within a famous, or whatever, you're going to be able to connect with so many people. And like, when I was first getting into doing this podcast, and putting my voice out there, I was a little bit hesitant. And I was like, Do I really want to do this? And I was like, why am I doing it? I'm not doing it to make money. I'm not doing it for this. I'm doing it because, I think I'll enjoy it. It's going to be a little bit different than the film although I've brought it in. I'm like, I've made this into a film podcast, but apart from all of that, I'm going to be able to connect and meet with people that otherwise never would have spoken to, or met with like, it's like, you could say, let's go up for lunch, let's get coffee, everybody's doing that. I don't think you actually really share and have a meaningful conversation. I just had rich role on the podcast, and he's got, he's like 250, 280 episodes, and he's been doing this since 2010, I believe. I used to be doing it for a really long time. And he was like, this is like a dying art form, the long form conversation. He's like, a lot of my best friends. I don't even have, when I have them on the podcast and talk with them. I don't have those conversations with them outside of the podcast. Like to be able to sit down with people and just, let's talk for an hour, two hours, and let's kind of pick out these things that have been going on. And my head for a while, but I haven't been able to really communicate them with people. And it forces people to be, move beyond your talking points, right? let's be honest. Everyone is trained now by PR agents and everything. If you're on a TV show for, what, like, five minutes, maybe that's like a long thing. You have these, literally 50 word answers that you're taught to say. But I love these long, that's what documentary is amazing too. You're sitting down with someone for three hour interview, and they have to say something. You got to break down the wall. They have to move beyond what they're normally saying. And I think this is one of the best kind of advice that we've learned over the period of time. This is really coming from Sean, who was, has taught us so much, but is, after you ask a question in a documentary interview, and someone's answered it, just hold the silence, right? And they're going to answer it again, and oftentimes that second answer is going to be way better. And more honest, and go deeper, and they've had a second to think about it, but they also just like, move beyond that kind of normal talking point. Is that the hardest thing to do? I couldn't even do it right there. so awkward. I mean, you know, in filmmaking you can edit, right? So you edit out that awkward silence, but I have found those answers to be, beautiful. Like people, all the sudden we'll say these kind of gold nuggets, and had you not spent that moment being awkward, you never would've had it. Yeah, the long-form conversation, I think people are becoming so desensitized to like the quick sound bite. And I think there's a place for it, and it's certainly like as teasers and getting people interested in something, most people wouldn't watch a feature like documentary without first watching a trailer to it. Yeah. But at the same time, I don't think that that is like fulfilling in the long term, in terms of consuming content. I think that's why podcasts have become so popular. It's because people are like, I just want to like, like listen to or engage with an actual conversation and not hear these, like you said talking points, because you have to do it in those instances, when some, if you're on TV in front of that, like you're on Charlie Rose, you're like, you guys are probably freaking out. You're like, we need this like 30 second, yeah, yeah, you guys actually lose your mind on that, because that's like Charlie Rose is incredible. That's like my dream is to be on Charlie Rose. They actually sent out a team to come on our bus. So it wasn't, it wasn't with Charlie Rose. So it wasn't there. So it was a little bit less freaky. That would have been crazy if you were like the sit down interview. trust me. And like, I think I mean, this is bringing up like a broader question to about how we're trying to approach our films in general is, you know, when we actually moved out of living one dollar into our second film, so I'm neighbor. so much of the coverage we were seeing seeing about the Syrian refugee crisis was exactly what you were saying, like the short snippets. They were the same kind of images of war and violence, the 30 second sound bites. And so we were really frustrated by that and kind of looked at, okay, can we go into a refugee camp? Again, not to simulate the life of a refugee, but to have spend four weeks there a month straight in the camp in our own tent, to just have that space to have a dialogue. To actually get to know somebody from an entirely different background and not just through an interview, but actually to sit there and share like eight to nine cups of tea a day to have that dialogue back and forth or I feel like it was such a privilege to get to meet a Syrian refugee, let alone, get to really know a Syrian refugee understand, not just their journey leaving Syria, but to get to know who they are, or what their favorite, you know, what their favorite podcast where I mean these little things that you make a relationship what it is. And it took a month for us to really get to a level that I felt like was adding to the conversation. I mean, my favorite moment in the film, Salam neighbor, is when we've invited everyone on the last day where they're for this kind of final cup of tea and people are playing music and our friend of ours asked us, do you see us as you see ourselves? See ourselves portrayed in the news as terrorists, as violent? And it hit me like, you know, a wall of bricks that our friends here are listening to how we're talking about them. They're listening from, you know, in this isolated refugee camp, they all have cell phones, they all have TV and they're hearing this crazy monologue or kind of like, a conversation that we're having that we think is, isn't having an impact on real people's lives and it took us a long time for them to be so honest with us to ask a question that really was kind of, a accusatory, or at least searching and I think it's those moments that it makes it all worth it and for us, really important. They expressed their frustration that somebody would come in to take a camera in their face for 30 minutes to ask them tell me about your most traumatic experience and then leave and then have no contact ever again and they would never, you know, they would see the piece on the internet then a month later without ever hearing from that that journalist before again. And something else, filmmakers, we think we have a privilege to do that some journalist don't is, you know, we can take that time and we can continue the relationships beyond just that one piece because, you know, film as you know, it takes, it can take years to make that and years of developing that relationship so you can really stick with that. So one thing that we did that was the most stressful screening of our lives is actually after we finished both of our films. After we finished the film, we went back to the refugee camp and we screened it for our friends in the camp. On our laptops, you know, just doing individual screenings with each family to hear what they thought before we released it online or showed it to anyone else. And thankfully, they liked it, thankfully they enjoyed the film. One of our friends had a really funny reaction that, you know, he watched it, he kind of pauses for a second. you know, I'm surprised it's any good. I'm like, what do you mean? And I guess to him, he just seen us, you know, these young idiots running around this camp and filming and he doesn't know what was ever going to be made out of it. But that was, you know, I think that is a privilege that as documentary filmmakers we can do that a typical journalist might not have the opportunity to. Right, you don't see that in, a CNN interview. They're in and out. Like the hurricane comes. They're there for maybe a week and then they leave. But they're just getting the sound by. They're just doing the live feeds. And I mean, not to discredit what a lot of these people in the media do. I had Antonio Hilton from Vice News tonight on the podcast. And she's like, the stuff that they have to deal with and view and witness on a daily basis. when I walk through the office, I just kind of have to, sometimes just put my hands over my eyes because all the screens are just filled up with like, bloodshed and carnage. And it's really sad and pressing work. But it's important work to get these messages out there. But there is something that's a little bit more, it gives you more of a real sense of what it's like when you're there and you're staying there. And you can tell it in a long format. that's just not something that you can do in an editorial type post, whether it's Vice News or CNN. But then there's also challenges to telling those kind of long format stories. This story, Selam Neighbor, that's a big story to tell and something that's really important right now. When did that idea come about? That's a big thing to, go halfway across the world and make this movie like, pretty scary project, right? Yeah. And it, like our first film, it was never meant to be a feature film. So it was less scary to make the project. It was supposed to be a short film. We had met on this incredible woman Selam Darwassa, nearby in Manhattan Beach here in Los Angeles. And it was the first time that I'd ever been confronted with the refugee experience. And so what it means to be forced to flee your home, what it means to have to restart your life in a whole new country. And at the same time, the Syrian conflict had become a large, a big part of the news. But there was this big missing story around the refugee crisis. So, you know, this film actually, we shot it in 2014. We met Selam in 2013. So this, you know, this story started before refugees became a big part of the news. And our film kind of released at the same time that it exploded in the news. So it was kind of exit, very serendipitous on the around the timing. Those things you just get lucky or, I mean, it's pretty unfortunate what's happened around the refugee crisis. But the timing is, yeah, in some way, serendipitous. Lucky that you, you can share that message in that story. Lucky that it was needed most. Right. That you happened upon this, this issue before it really became part of the mainstream conversation. Yeah. And then that, you know, we literally had worked on that film for an entire year of editing before we released it. And it released the same time that Alan Curdy, the young boy, washed ashore in, back in Turkey, but he was trying to cross to grease and it was that moment. You could literally see in Google Analytics data that the whole world started paying attention. Right. And that was our film had just released three months before that. So. So it was amazing that at that moment, we had, yeah, like you said, it was the most needed moment to us for people to actually separate the experience of a refugee from, again, what we thought what many people are seeing in the news, the same images of war and violence and Syria, of the narratives, of extremist groups, like ISIS, who are the exact groups that somebody that a refugee family is fleeing. And so, we ended up kind of with the distribution of that film going about an approach to target, not students this time, like we did with their own family, but to target communities that wouldn't typically engage with a Syrian refugee experience. And we kind of, we did screenings in Fort Worth, Texas, in Omaha, Nebraska, now in 44 states around the country we're still looking for those last six. we'll get there. But to, you know, at its core, to have a dialogue about and about the refugee crisis and separate, really define what it means to be a refugee crisis. You know, our neighbors in the camp were, you know, the guy who was in the tent next to us was in the counten back in Syria. One of the main characters the film was a French teacher and he speaks to us about how Damascus is the, the world's oldest city and how it was, you know, thriving society before in many ways before he was forced to in an instant kind of flea's country. You guys made a virtual film around this topic as well. Talk about that. Like, I think it's going to be the, at least in part, the future of filmmaking. I've definitely heard a lot of people talking about it. Being able to, to give more of an immersive experience. And what you did was really beautiful. I really liked it. I don't have a nice headset. I just watched it on YouTube and just kind of scrolled around through it. But, did you guys, I mean, with like the real headset, I'm sure it gives you a really immersive experience. So the piece is made for the US Holocaust Memorial Museum. So it's actually, I think exhibit where people sit down and share and have the full headsets. And so it was really created with that in mind. I think VR is such an exciting medium. It really works well with very specific stories. I don't think it's going to replace, you know, 2D film. You know, it's, it's so immersive when you have the headset. It's so immersive when you can really sit in it. It was really fun to experiment. And it really served well for trying to place you in these, you know, specific worlds that a refugee moves through. And we were, had worked with Riot. Riot had this incredible footage from inside Syria. You're actually in the middle of the wreckage. We worked with this amazing man in Fiatas, who has this young son. And he's trying to figure out, you know, what the future for his son is, while living in an urban space in Jordan without really any access to services. And, he used to be a lawyer back in Syria. And now he's, um, all he can do is work under the table because he can't legally work. So, Fiatas was more of, I mean, I think of like, I try and think of the story as the core, and then what is the medium to best serve that story. And VR is such a cool thing now that we have it or disposal, and it's much cheaper now, than even when we shot the VR film to create as well. Yeah, I think what's probably tough is that the audience is never going to be as big yet. It's not like VR is that accessible. Hardware has to catch up. So, like, we don't really have, you know, headsets aren't ubiquitous. You know, when you a lot of times, like Chris, people get sick while watching it. Oh, yes, it's the hardest part of the editing process. we're like watching cut after cut. I'm putting on the headset to watch the cut, but I'm also feeling like I'm going to throw up at the same time, but yeah, but I got through it. That's right. that's like super, it's pretty advanced at this point, like certainly a head of the game in terms of doing the VR stuff. What was the technology like for you guys? You're going from 5D, 70 to your next stock. What did you bring to that? What was the crew like? What was the gear? So it was just me and Chris. So you stripped it down even more. No, that must be even more challenging, because now you're going here. I guess probably it kind of brings down the walls a little bit easier. Like we were talking about before the podcast, but you're not going in necessarily with this huge amount of gear in Crow. It's just used to, but what was the gear that you used? So we used a hero set up a GoPro, here set up of five GoPro, so four GoPro, six GoPro. Oh, it's clear. It's been a while. But with Salam, I was talking about Salam neighbor too. Oh, sorry. It was like a neighbor. Yeah, sorry. Salam neighbor. We just had, so it was Chris and I and Sean. And we had, I mean, Sean was mostly shooting. We were second cam kind of trading off. And we had a single tent, and then we had a translator slash fixer who was living through the experience with us as well. So again, only four people. And I think like, one thing, so we filmed that again on DSLRs actually, and GoPro in all of Salam neighbor. And a 60, a 70, and a GoPro. And a GoPro. And we had lapel mics, and we just had an H4N as well. So we stepped it up to lapels. Yeah, that's exactly it. But I mean, again, like for our feature film, and we're using such basic equipment. And I think, you know, people oftentimes put so much stock into the equipment that you're using, whereas yes, obviously we all want the best cameras or the quality you can get. And sometimes you do need that. But the, there were benefits to having, in the shooting, only on these DSLRs, where especially, we're in small refugee tents, filming constantly, you're asking people very intimate questions in the refugee camp about experiences that would be, I couldn't even imagine, talking about losing a family member or fleeing your home, or those types of experiences. And so anything that you can do to make somebody feel comfortable the better. And for us, DSLRs were a great way to do that, where you're not sticking a huge camera in someone's face. You're also, you don't have a guy with a boom mic, like shoving that down their throat. You don't have lights and a whole thing. And so sometimes, like the, actually the equipment can play to your advantage. And our, we've even filmed with the iPhone, sometimes because it, the new iPhone can film in 4K. And it's very personal. But, it's always a decision. Yeah, you, did you guys see the doc weiner? Yeah. So good. But they were definitely shooting on, like, 60 or whatever it was. It wasn't anything great in terms of their gear. I don't even know if they used lapel mics on most of the, their footage. It was just, it seemed like it was just two guys with DSLR cameras falling around Anthony Weiner. Yeah. But what, what conspired was amazing. And it was a look into politics that you normally don't ever see. I mean, access is everything in storytelling. Right? If you can get the access, everything will fall into place. And with Anthony, with that Weiner doc, it mean it was his former chief of staff. So trusted him, like, no other person. And I mean, maybe you should fact check that. But I'm pretty sure. Yeah. And it was, and I think trusted is the right word. I think now there's a, there's a rift in that relationship. It is. And I think, that's a, you know, that access and the trust that you build is something that's so important for us. We've seen that in the course of our filmmaking. We go back to Pennybunk every year for the last eight years. And at we see every time we go back, people open up in totally new ways. Our new short film on one of the main characters of living on one dollar is called Rosa these storms. And it's about Rosa's specific journey. Because she says in living on one dollar that she wants to be a nurse. But we don't find out why. Really, which is this intense, really personal story until three years later. And so that became its whole other piece. And now she's like, you know, at 32, like third, three years into nursing school. So there's a spoilage man. I know. Well, that's, didn't spoil the other parts. Yeah. But yeah. I think, like, these are long processes. people don't just come in and, you know, someone came into my house and asked me really personal questions. I'd probably tell them five percent of what of the, of the true story. Yeah. So when you guys go to do Selam neighbor or any project like that, we really immersing yourself into a place. You come out shooting first day or do you take a day or two to settle in? I mean, obviously, you're probably filming because you're filming your guys experience there. So going there. That's an important part of it. But when do you start to get access to the community and start to break down those barriers? You know, it's always decided in the moment. You feel your relationship with a person there. If someone feels like they're comfortable with a camera and you can just start kind of, you know, you're filming running some audio or running camera just in a conversation, run with it and go for that. With living on one dollar, we are very hesitant with filming because we've never really done it before. So we actually, when you look at the footage, we don't really have anything from the first two weeks. We've got like a couple select scenes, not really any interviews with Selam neighbor. We did come in and start filming a lot faster. But I think filming can mean so many different things. Like if I'm asking you your names, a background information, we're just having a conversation and that's on film. You know, that's a very different thing than asking somebody and asking them to explain a moment in their life that they'll probably only ever want to tell you once. Like the loss of a child, where, you know, we have an amazing woman we met in the refugee camp who, you know, her, she's lost two children now, one to ISIS and one to the Assad regime and her talking about that experience was incredibly painful for her. So that wasn't where we started obviously. And we didn't even learn that until a while later. And what she began speaking with us about initially was how she was actually collecting trash around the camp, these like plastic bags and things around the camp and weaving them into art and then selling those. And like, she was so proud of it. And so she showed us all of these different weaving she'd made and baskets and artwork that she'd done. And we really bonded over that for a number of weeks before we even got into her background and hearing more about what she was willing to share with us. That's got to be life changing experience for you guys to be able to do that, immerse yourself in these communities and in these refugee camps. And then you come back home to L.A. Like, what is that experience like, are you like, oh shit, how do we even, what do we do here? And you know what I mean? There's got to be some element of guilt. Like, I certainly feel it too when you see people that are so less fortunate than we've had in our lives. It's like, how do you move forward and what keeps you going through that? After every experience, we come home with this feeling of guilt. But the reality is the best cure to guilt is action. And we're so lucky to be able to come back with footage and immediately start making a film. And I think that process is incredibly important for dealing with those emotions. And feeling like we're actually contributing. Because a lot of us around the world travel and you might see something that's really shakes you up. But we don't all have those outlets to come back and take action. So we try not to dull too much and you just have to dive in. And I think it's not just our experience immersing ourselves, but any filmmaker, journalist, goes through this. And again, we feel super privileged to be able to immediately start creating something. And that's the cool part of being a creator is you're actually creating this tangible thing that could really have an impact. And that's why I think it's harder for, oftentimes we think about how it's harder to be a journalist where we can, they have to go in and then move on to the next story. For us, we have been able to dedicate the last three years of our lives to telling this specific story and to raising awareness for out of raising donations, impacting actual policy, and keeping in touch with the people who are there. So it's been amazing that everyone in the camp has cell phones. So we send photos and videos after screenings to our friends in the camp on Vio WhatsApp. And then we were able to slowly see that change happen where on the policy level, it's been really cool. Even President Obama used clips of the film to kick off his refugee summit last year. So you've got the top level side, but then on the grassroots, we did some screenings around Canada. And a few individuals want to just privately sponsor a refugee family from the film. So two of the families from the film are now getting resettled to Nova Scotia in Canada, which is amazing. You can see the life of that actual individual who I know, who I developed this relationship with, is now changing. And that's what really matters to us, I think. What advice would you give to the aspiring creator, the aspiring filmmaker, somebody who we want to encourage to not just make content, because everybody's like, got to make content. Make sure you make consistent content, do it every day. But that's just a lot of times it's vapid, it's clickbait, it's nonsense, and it's not helping to really make an impact. So if we're trying to give advice to those people, the filmmakers, creators, to make meaningful content, what advice would you give them, and how do they find stories worth telling? I think it's all about finding the right approach to learning. For us, that with Guatemala meant literally creating this kind of simulation and really diving in, other pieces has been very different. With Salam neighbor, it was about having a tent and having a space that was a really unique place to invite people into tell their stories in the camp. So we think a lot about what is their approach to learning, and what's nice about that is it's a lot less scary than, you know, it means you don't have to have the answer, right? The whole process of creating is learning and seeking the answer, and so the filmmaking is just a part of that, and it's kind of freeing, because like with a new film, like you want to know what it is before it's created, but as long as you get started learning, you know, it's step-by-step, and it kind of builds into this film. I think at a baseline, the most important thing for a filmmaker to do is to maintain integrity, and make sure that you are telling the story truthfully and accurately, are there checks and balances that you guys create to make sure that your stories are true and that they are reflecting what's happening in the world, because it is challenging, like you say, you take hundreds of hours of footage, and you're cutting it down, cutting it down, and you make a 55 to an hour, hour, 15-minute documentary, you're not telling the whole context at all times. How do you guys grapple with that in the editing process? And that's what I think having different approaches to learning, Isaac was kind of saying, make sense, where we come out of projects with both our last two films of intense academic research, talking with experts, understanding as much as possible, from a kind of global context perspective of the refugee crisis, for example. And then you take that, and all these great theories in Yadiyada, and you break it down by having an actual conversation with a refugee themselves. And that type of perspective is raw, it's real, it's honest. And then we've kind of added an a third dimension, a little bit of trying to put ourselves in a different position by living on a dollar a day ourselves, for example, and seeing and feeling a little bit, even a glimpse of what that might be like. The stress might be like to manage that type of lifestyle. And so when you kind of combine all of those together, we're trying to paint a picture that is the most complete so at least impactful perspective that we can come up with. Yeah, that's definitely what we try to do with minimalism, which was when we first set out across the country and reviewed these people that called themselves minimalist, it was like anecdotal and it was great. And it was, you know, you got these experiences and these people said they were much happier living on less. But then it was for me, I was like, yeah, but I'm not satisfied with just that. I think I need to actually know from experts and economists and people who actually know much more about people living in poverty, people that don't have enough, have just enough and what is that relationship between, you know, what we have and are well-being and happiness. And for me, it was that helped, I think, tie it together. It also added credibility. It also let me know that the story I'm telling is true and it's not just my, based on my assumptions. Because a lot of times, as a filmmaker, you head into a project with certain assumptions about what it's going to be like, oftentimes, you get the story flips on your head. I talked to Matthew Heineman, who directed Cartelland. And I was lucky enough to interview him for a project I was working on with Mike.com. And he was like his best advice he ever heard was, if your story doesn't change along the way, you're not listening. And I always take that the heart and it gives, it relieves the stress for me heading into a project just knowing that this is going to change. It's going to evolve and you have to let it move and shape as you work with it. But also knowing that your assumptions in the beginning are probably going to change. And I think as, you know, you're, we're both social impact would be labeled as social impact filmmakers. And so I think people believe that you're coming to it with a perspective. And it's actually kind of interesting when we have to push back against people who are our donors or who are supporters, saying, you know, what's your perspective going to be on this? And we don't know yet. We're still making the film. It's about learning it, you know, throughout that process. And I think the whole social impact documentary space has to wrestle with that, of making sure that the stories are remaining honest, because there have been certain films that you've seen that come out of it. And I do feel like they're very one sided in how the story might be told. Yeah, yeah, not to name names, but I certainly know what you're talking about. And like, you can, you can feel it from the beginning. Like when somebody clearly has an agenda, somebody clearly, like, especially when it's like they put themselves in it and it's their voice over. And it's like, it's very easy to take what our facts, but not, but only say that and not really show the full picture and show how everything. And it's not always intentional. I think one of the cool creative approaches we started to use that we actually learned from creativity, ink written by the Pixar founder is to create a brain trust. And it's literally a group of people who have all gone through this process before, so you trust them, and they also have no financial stake or decision making in your filmmaking process. So you don't feel like you're threatened by them. And so it's like a group of these people that you really trust that watch your film throughout the process, understand what type of feedback is useful throughout it, but also keep you really honest. And it's so helpful because you're so deep in the footage, you're so deep in the story that at some point you stop losing the ability to even see the story, or even see when it comes across as to one side it because it's what you believe at that point. And just, you know, creating that structure for us has been hugely helpful. Yeah, creativity, ink is a fantastic book. I think any creative should read. It's actually one of the reasons why I want to go with a round table. I don't know if you remember that scene from earlier that paragraph from the book, but it was like, they had this conference table and it was long and rectangular. And they, I think they had place cards on them. So then it would be like the most important people in the center of the table, and then it would stagger less important people around the outside, and then even more people just kind of sitting on the edges of the table. And they said they had this methodology of anybody can contribute. We want to hear everybody's ideas, but the way that the whole room was set up, and the meetings were set up, it wasn't really allowing other people to contribute. But by getting that table out of there, we're going to bring a round table in. There now is no place where the most important person can sit. And I just love that dynamic. I think we don't think enough. We're not aware enough about those kind of things in our physical world. That can actually help us to change how something is created. You guys wanted to do quick questions to wrap this up. Awesome. Quick questions, not quick answers. So you can let your answers breathe a little bit. But we will get into it here. Talking about books, what one book has had the biggest impact on your guys' lives. So, I mean, I think creativity and I would separate it into two things, and they're actually kind of similar. So, you know, the creative process type book, and then the development or impact space book. And what we've noticed when we read a ton of these two books, because we're huge nerds for them, and there's actually a lot of similarities in the approaches of how you go about making an impact and how you go about creating a film. It's a lot of it is about listening. Like we were talking about, a lot of it is about being patiently persistent as you go through it, recognizing that real change takes time that real good stories take time to unfold. Can I try and guess what books you're going to say? You go for it. This is like the dating game. I think on the creative side, maybe creativity ink. And then on the development side, portfolios of the poor. Yeah, you know, you're pretty close. I was going to switch it up though with the creativity ink because you got portfolios of the poor. I was going to start with creativity ink, and actually add in a big magic, by Elizabeth Gilbert. And I don't know if you've read that one before. I think what was her first book? Was it the one that did the, I can't read? Yeah, yeah, I read that, but I didn't read that. It's kind of a, you know, she talks in that book about how he play love was a total accident. It will probably be her most famous book of all time. Yeah, she has like all of these other books that have happened since, but she, she really talks about for her that how do you stay creatively inspired and that, you know, her focus would usually be, I'm going to, I'm writing this book on a certain topic. I'm going to stay only in that topic, and just beat my head against the wall on it, and then she would realize the second she'd step back and just like go for a run, like read a different book, she would be creatively inspired around her topic around her thing. And so kind of just being always aware that you can't let your project overwhelm you, you can't let it become your whole life because then you'll lose that perspective. That's so helpful. And then portfolio is the poor. To me is, it's just a backbone book that everybody should read to understand the life of the extreme poor, that there's over a billion people around the world living in extreme poverty, and we're not going to figure out how to actually end extreme poverty or generation without understanding it. Wow. And for me, I read sci-fi a lot, and if you look at a couple books, like Neuro-Mancer or Ubic, these are people who are trying to understand what the future might look like, and like, these were written before computers, yet they kind of imagine a world with a version of computers and for us, I mean, I hope we're asking questions that could potentially shape the world in the future moving forward, and those books are so freeing because it's important that we think about those things. And so if you're going to read some old school sci-fi, like Ubic and Neuro-Mancer, like these really awesome books that kind of make you realize that it's important to be thinking about the future. What drives you guys? Why do you keep creating? And I think this is asking, you know, what really matters to, and for us, it's the impact that it can have on someone's life. Seeing Rosa, you know, become a nurse, seeing Raouf go back to school, seeing Ishmael's family being resailed to Canada. That's like the most rewarding element of this whole process. Yeah, it's amazing that that impact is what comes first in mind, but there's also even bigger impacts of somebody who watches the film, who gets to see what it's like to be a refugee, who gets to see what it's like to live on a dollar a day. I think that greater impact is just as important, because it kind of opens up the world to people to ideas that they may not have thought about. And they're in or mangled, I mean, without those people who've seen the film, Raouf and James Malden never happens. So it's all part of a really important ecosystem. What one skill have you guys leveraged in a way that you think other people haven't? That is a really good question. Cold emailing. Yeah. I mean, honestly, one of our most incredible mentors, trial side, we saw his TED Talk, and we were like, we have to talk to him. We were literally just juniors in college, and we were like, we're going to email him. So we just emailed him, and we had something to share. We had created these little videos, and he's every step of the way. I've been a huge part of our creative process, and he helped us structure our own TED Talk. He is just a real incredible thinker. So we're pretty good at just going for it. He's in the brain trust. Yeah, it's amazing. I want to know about the cold email. What if you guys learned about cold emailing? Because some people, I get emails from people a lot, I don't think they really get it. Like a lot of people are just trying to get something from you right away. I'm not perfect at it, but I spent so much time writing emails, especially the ones that are important, that I know I'm like, okay, this message, if I'm trying to get somebody to say, come on the podcast. Somebody who's well known, who this podcast is not going to help them with their credibility, it's not like, whoa, I made it. I'm going to go on maths podcast, but how could I better, and how could people better cold email to connect with people that they don't know? So I think the first thing to come to mind to me is why you are cold emailing me. So what I mean by that is, why is it that you're doing what you're doing? So you have a podcast, but why are you, why do you have a podcast? What is it that really drives you and gets you excited? And if you can't convey that to me in an email, then is it worth us really talking? Are you just doing this for a reason that you don't know? I think I'm always react so well to somebody who can explain to me why, why they're passionate about it, why they're excited about this. And then too, as Zach was talking about, show me something that you've started and then you've hit a roadblock, because if you haven't yet started, then we don't have anything to talk about, because the first thing is that if you, you got to spin your wheels for a while, you got to keep trying, get as far as you possibly can yourself by yourself and then get feedback, but if you haven't started that, then again, there's not that much that anybody can tell you other than you got to keep starting. So those would be the two things I would say. That's great. When are you guys happiest? Oh man, these are interesting questions. I'm happiest when we're in production, so shooting, we don't often get out enough to go film, and that's when the most discoveries happen. You can read forever, but then as soon as you get into an interview, crazy, amazing magic, that's where it all takes place. Do you guys love all the stuff that you make? Because sometimes I look, I can't watch minimalism. I'm like, watch it too many times, I hate it. It's like the worst thing I've ever made. That's why you keep creating new stuff, so you don't have to talk about the old stuff. Yeah, exactly, it really is. It's, oh man, it's so challenging. Do you guys, so if you guys still have screenings or your films and you go to them, then you sit through it. I don't. You don't. Oh man, it's enough. I'll be at the bar across the street waiting for this thing to hold the blow over. Yeah, no, we can't. It's the best time to do other work is, you know, when everyone is watching your film. I'm glad that I'm not the only one, because I just sit in through the screenings. I just like look at my feet. I'm like, I can't even look at, or I'll look at a corner of the screen, because I can't just watch this again. I'm just going to try to, confuse myself with additional thoughts and just kind of lose myself while this is going on. I would add to the happiness thing. I think what's interesting is, there's always as narrative like that, the tormented artist, right? And you're not a true artist unless you're, unless you're really unhappy or wrestling with something. And I don't really buy that narrative. I think in order to be a good artist as well, you need to have balance in your life. You need to find a way to be both gifts to your art, but also maintain a healthy and balanced life. Because otherwise, you're not going to be able to continue to give to your art. If you lose, if you lose your health, if you lose relationships around you, then that's not going to be good for your art. And so I always think that happiness as an artist or as somebody's trying to make an impact in the world, you really have to take care of yourself first to be able to have anything to give to your art. And we always feel this, at the end of the creative process of finishing a film, you're so creatively tapped out, right? You're like, I gave everything to this, and then you kind of have this small rebuilding period as the films are leasing, and you start to get ready for your recharging your batteries to be able to give it all to another film again. But if you don't do that recharged step, and you don't allow yourself that space for a second to have that balance in your life, I think you're not going to be happy, you're not going to create great art. How do you know when to stop? Once you said, you get 80 versions of living on one dollar, and it had many of minimalism. How do you know when to pull the brakes, when to say, okay, we're done? And it's time to submit to Sunnet. No, but when you run out of money, yeah, yeah, that's it's good. Or when you have those people around you that brain trust who's like, this is it. Yeah. And that's it's hard to see that yourself, so having someone tell you that, and some of that you trust is very helpful. It's never V1. No. So keep going at V1. Usually 86. Yeah, 86 or 87. Yeah. Somewhere around there. What's the simplest advice? That's the most important to follow. Kids started. I mean, everyone says it, but it's so true. And it's a roadblock that I run into every time that we're starting a new film, because it's it's a little bit by little bit that these things are created. And yeah, something we're even, you know, we're doing now. We were talking about actually on the way over here this morning of if if you see it as a full feature documentary, you're not going to get started. Because that's way too daunting. You don't know what the story is yet. It's way too intense. So how do you take it and break it into a much more manageable chunks along the way? So you're like, what we're focusing on this month, even, is just finding one character. And you're like, we can find one character, right? Like we could find one interesting story in this topic. And then you can accomplish that. And then you, as you by doing that, you then figure out what your next little roadblock is. And you kind of break it into those little chunks. And I think people always over estimate what they can do in a year and they underestimate what they can do in a week. And so break it up into these little chunks and set yourself these little weekly goals that I'll keep you moving forward. I love that idea of just starting small and so many times. I've started really small projects. I'm like, this is just going to be a short film. It's just going to be a one-off. It's going to be a limited series. And then all of a sudden it grows and it grows. But sometimes I think that helps you just to get started. Just to plot the camera, whatever it is, to start working on that thing. That's really good advice. Yeah. And we should follow it ourselves more. Exactly. That's the thing is that I talk about all this stuff. I give all this advice to other people. Half the time I don't take it. But it is about reminding yourself. Just start making shit and then keep going. Where do you guys go when you're feeling doubt when you're feeling like you don't know which direction to head or your questioning the direction you are heading in? Each other, I think it's pretty fun to have some of that you trust and have worked with for a long time. It's not the only way of doing it. But it's probably the only reason we're still doing it. Because we'll both have self-doubt. Everyone has doubt. Everyone has highs and lows. And so what you hope is that your highs and lows don't correspond at the same time. That's true. Because if that happens, then you fall off the edge there. But you're there to pick each other up in the way. And that's again why I think you need relationships in your life. You need people you're working with, collaborating with creatively to keep you there. Absolutely. And my mom's a therapist that helps. Does that? I don't know. I feel like that might be conflicting. I don't know if I want to talk to my mom if she was a therapist. I've got a couple more questions here. One fun one to wrap things up. So I've got a big stretch goal of getting the rock on my podcast. You may have heard it's been trying to get a hold of the rock. He's not picking up. He's not answering my phone calls. I really want to talk to the rock about his ground up story. How he built what he has now. And what drives him to keep on going. So first off, do you guys have any advice? I do not know the rock. If I was going to hold, yeah, I wish. I'm like, if I do enough interviews, I'm going to find someone who will know the rock. Yeah. But you think they're going to actually be like, hey, you should come on Mads podcast. Yes. Maybe. If I knew the rock, I would say for sure. I mean, I think there's a lot of good puns here between the rock and ground up. You know, you can create something there. I would just come up with as many creative puns as you can. Like between a rock and a podcast. Exactly. Keep deciding. Keep tweeting about it. Keep tweeting about it all day every day. Yeah. You've gotten started. You've proven to him that you're willing to put that amount of effort into getting the rock. Well, I've got a website. It's got it. Get the rock on MadsPodcast.com. Exactly. This is what a hashtag. Get the rock on MadsPodcast. It's a little bit long. It's like, you know what? I think it's going to work. I'm like, I might say like a Kickstarter. Get like a billboard. It's hashtag rock out. Hashtag. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah. We'll come out with all sorts of things. Just going to be a lot. So what I'm going to try to do is hopefully by the time this comes out. I should do it. But have that landing page set up and then have auto generated tweets. So people can just tweet the rock to come on MadsPodcast. But make them puns. I mean, no one cares unless the pun puns. I think I need a pun pun. A lot of memes. He's like, he's a guy that's connected with the internet. He gets the meme thing. So maybe I'll make some memes. Yeah. I don't know. And so for you're bringing up something that is so tempting for. For filmmakers like us to jump on is that we want to do anything other than focusing on our next feature documentary. So I'm going to help you get the rock. On your podcast. I really appreciate that. I'm going to turn this into like a fun documentary. Yeah. Just my, because I've got, I don't know if you see behind you. But I've got the rock framed up on this wall right here. And I also rate photo. It's a good photo. And I actually have the same photo here in my wallet. I'm like, do you have extras? This is the secret. In action. I don't have extras. I only have two. I'm going to get my mood board going soon. I mean, the biggest challenge there, though, is and this is just like, it's a fun. It's a silly idea, but it's also. He's like the busiest person on the planet. Like he's a movie after movie HBO show. He's like, I think he like partnered up into the CNN show. He's like, he's huge is doing everything. So it's like, if I could somehow impressive. Oh my god. It's amazing. It wakes up at five. He's got this thing called the rock clock. Have you heard it? No. Oh, okay. I'm going to show you guys this because it's incredible. I, I, I, I, This is how I wake up every morning. You can actually set your rock to rock time. Right there. I think actually if I, if I click it, it'll play sound. That's awesome. It's an incredible. So it's a rock clock. Rock, it's waking up at 350 a.m. tomorrow morning. So you wake up with the rock. If that's not creepy. I don't know what is. But anyway, he's got these different alarm clocks here, where you're going to add a new alarm. Do you think he just plays with that to mess with the thousands of people that, like, yeah, he's like two a.m. And he's like, I'm really waking about three or four. No. Yeah. So this is listen to these things. I mean, that's a dope ringtone. But some of them are actually kind of funny. I mean again. So here's another idea. You've got to sing it the rock to, sing it the rock. Because you just are working around terrifying Chris. This is not. I don't know if this is. Because I mean, because he's got so he's got so many elements to his career into what he's accomplished. And he's again, like you said he has no shame of going out there and trying it. So I think you've got to, you have to replicate. You have to replicate what you think the rock has done himself in his career. Yeah. The big thing is I have to add value to the rock. I have to build a lot for the rock laugh. I've got to get something that engages him in a way. Anyway, thank you for doing that. I appreciate it. And we'll see. I'm going to keep bugging you guys to help me get the rock on this podcast. And I got to be patient though because I feel like it's not going to happen anytime soon. Talk about, yeah. I don't know if this is the most meaningful message in the world for you guys to be dedicated yourselves to. We did have a funny experience where there was a Syrian refugee who was coming to the Oscars this past year and she didn't have a dress the day before the Oscars. So we just tweeted it out and immediately it got picked up by a number of different publications, including Variety and others being like help get this Syrian refugee address off of these tweets. And you know, my tweet was embedded in the middle of all these articles and she got, she got it made a handmade dress for her in one day in the day before the Oscars. So Twitter can accomplish these things. That's amazing. I just love like really simple ideas like that because it's just one small thing, but that probably made such a big impact on this person's life. Yeah. All right, two more questions to wrap it up here. One thing that the audience should read, watch, or listen to before they go to bed tonight. I would, I'm listening to your hustle on Radio Topia. It's so good. It's, it's a great collaboration between an artist and a subject. And if you're a creator, just, I mean, it's a great, it's a great way to just like explore, explore that relationship. There's this little three minute video that I watched repeatedly every couple months. It's called Taste and it's by, it's narrated by Ira Glass. So if you just Google Taste and Ira Glass, it will come up. And it just, it's the best thing to keep reminding you to get out there and to create because only by continuing to create over and over again will your taste, or will you wear your skill, then ever match your taste. Because like you said, we hate watching our films after we've made them. And we think we could do better and so you got to just keep getting them. And you're going to create crappy content. But it just happens and then maybe some theoretical day, you'll have a piece or your skill matched your taste. Yeah, I love that. Yeah, that's a really good video. The one video that I listened to or watched repeatedly. I haven't done it in a little while. I'll have to again. But you ever see that inspirational Charlie Chaplin video? Yeah. Yeah, like it's from this movie The Dictator. But he gives this amazing beautiful speech. Like I start crying when I watch it. I'm like, oh shit, I gotta start doing some stuff. I gotta start. That's what I'm going to watch. Yeah, you should check it out. It's really good. Is there a name? Do you remember the name for it? It's like the greatest speech on. I think it's the greatest speech ever made or something like that. I think that's what the video is called. And lastly, to wrap things up, how should people connect with you guys online? Social media is great. We're at living on one on all the handles. And then personally too. Like we love when people ask us questions. We've benefited so much from, you know, people have taken time to answer them. Hopefully we can get around to it too. Yeah, then our website, see I just living on one.org and our email addresses are both up on there as well. Just Chris is living on one. And that organs. Exactly living on one. All our handles across social, it's our names. So, yeah, reach out. And if you send a cold email, make sure you explain why and explain and have gotten started and you're in reach to real blog. Awesome, guys. Thanks so much for coming on. Yeah, thanks for having us. All right. Thanks so much for listening. To the ground up show, I hope you enjoyed this conversation with Chris and Zack. I found it to be really insightful myself to see how other filmmakers are approaching the craft. And how they're approaching this idea of trying to make an impact and change lives. They're definitely doing it in a different way. And besides what Zack said, I think that this really can be. Their lives can be a template for how to how to make an impact and how to change lives. If you want to help out, you can leave a review of this podcast on iTunes. As you know, I'm not doing advertising on the show. So I'm not making any money from it. But I am hoping to grow this podcast and for it to be something sustainable. I do that. I need it to be a little bit bigger. I need to to try to grow my audience and hopefully make a bigger impact myself. So if you head over to iTunes and leave a review for the show, whatever review you want. One to five stars. I'm hoping it's more on the five star range. But that would be really helpful because then it tends to show up a little bit more in the search results. And people can, it's one way of validating that it's a good show, which I think it is. So that would be super helpful. Also got to mention, I might do this every episode now. Get the rock on matchpodcast.com. Go there. Send the rock a tweet. Say hello to me on Twitter. It's really great to see you guys coming out and getting creative and messaging the rock in different ways. Yeah, that's it's about it. I kind of like doing the an off the cuff outro to each episode. This is like, I used to do it. I think in the beginning early on, I would kind of switch it up every time. I used to when I was a podcast listener. I still listen a little bit, but not as much as I used to when you're creating so much. It's kind of hard to still listen to hours of podcasts every day. But still a fan of the medium. And then from whatever member it's like everybody would just have the generic podcast outro like I did. It's just it's just easier. Obviously you just record it one time and you just keep plugging it in. But I feel like it's just I don't know. It's like, why would you listen to the same thing over and over again? Why would you listen to the person say the same thing in the same way? So maybe I'll just keep doing this. I'll just keep having a rant towards the end where I can do the plugs for the iTunes reviews. I can get you to go to get the Rockham Maths podcast. But maybe I'll also fill you in with other updates that are going on. Other things that are going on with this show as a way to wrap things up. But now I'm rambling and thanks for watching. Thanks for listening and I'll see you next time.
