# I learned a system for remembering everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rvey9g0VgY0
Go to https://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code MATTDAVELLA. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video 🤘

🗣️ Things I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links, all are genuine recommendations)
Courage is Calling by Ryan Holiday: https://amzn.to/3K207XF

🤘 Where I get my music...
Artlist: https://bit.ly/matt-loves-artlist

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 CREDITS
Directed by Matt D'Avella
Produced by Matt D’Avella & Emma Norris
Edited by Matt D’Avella & Spencer Torok
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, 
**Date:** 2022-08-17

## Transcript
 Imagine being able to pick up any book, read it, and remember almost everything from it. This kind of superpower memory recall might feel like fiction, but there are people in the real world that seem to carry an incredible ability to hold on to information. And I'm definitely not one of them. I've read hundreds of books, blogs, and newsletters, but my ability to recall any of it is terrible. So I decided to finally look into this blind spot to learn about how the smartest people in the world remember information. And to uncover their systems, so I can use them for myself. This video is brought to you by Squarespace. I'll talk more about them later in the video. If I were to show you a nonfiction book that you've read over the past year, whether it was for school, work, or your own personal development, how likely are you to be able to remember five facts from the book? How well could you explain the book to someone else? Alright, let me give this a try for myself. Still like an artist. Being creative means getting inspired by other people, and you should steal like an artist. It's really a book about... I just read this book, so this one's a little bit unfair. What else was it? What else was in this book? Great ideas are really simple and clear. I think that's all I got. I can't even remember one of the 48 laws. I just read this book like a month ago. There's not much of a point of reading nonfiction books. Particularly books about personal development. If you're not actually going to absorb and implement the insights. But remembering everything might be a bit of a stretch for the average person. After some research, I discovered that our ability to remember things very wildly from person to person. Some have terrible memories, others exceptional, and even others have photographic memories. As you might have guessed, the average memory is spotty, messy, and often unreliable. It's easier for us to remember events that provide deviation from our typical sensory experience. Like getting hit in the face with a ball. That interesting thing you learned from that self-help book, not so much. But my question is, can we change that? I knew exactly who I needed to speak with. I read online that you've read over 3,000 books. Is that true? I don't know. I think it's probably bad for me to count, you know, like with romantic partners. I don't know about you, but that number wouldn't take me very long to add up. Ryan Holiday is the international bestselling author of Great Books, like the obstacle is the way, and ego is the enemy. And while I can't remember much of what I read in these books, I do remember them being really good. Ryan, thanks so much for being here. One of the things that I was struck by when I first interviewed Ryan back in 2019 was his memory recall. He pulled quotes and stories effortlessly from the books that he's read over the years. Eisenhower had this line and said, William James talked about this. I have a quote in the intro from Blaze Pascal. Buddha and Marcus Aurelius and Senika and Confucius, and I seriously needed to know his secret. So I jumped on a video call with him so we could get to the bottom of it. One of the main reasons why I wanted to chat with you is because I have this problem, where I read a non-fiction book, and then I completely forget about everything. Like I can look at that book and be like, I don't remember one or two things from this book. How can we get better at remembering what we read and putting into practice what we read? First up, I'd be a little kind to your self. Having one or two things that you take from a book. If those are important things, that could change your life. You know, you paid $11 for this book. Like, is it so bad that you only got two life-changing things from it? Right? So I think sometimes people are like, I don't have perfect recall of the book. I mean, the book was supposed to take you on a journey and leave you with something. I started in publishing as a research assistant. I worked for this amazing author named Robert Henry. And he showed me a way of reading that I practiced to this day that I think could be valuable, which is basically, as I read a book, I fold pages as I'm reading, and then I make notes to myself. I'm highlighting the things that I'm liking, and then what I do as a writer because I want to use a lot of this information is I then transfer the stuff that I really liked where that really impacted me, and I put them on note cards. And so I just write the thought that I had that it inspired, right? Write down the story, and then I sort those notes cards by theme. So I'm kind of creating an exterior brain that organizes the stuff that I took from the books. So I decided to put Ryan's system to the test and try it out for myself. And what better book to start with, then courage is calling. That's Ryan's latest book, by the way. Alright, so I've got my tools here. Highlighter hand, my post-it bookmarks here, and a stack of note cards. And of course, my book. Let's see how this works. So when you really break down Ryan's system, there are three main parts. First, take notes while you read. Second, revisit and revise your notes when you're finished with a book, and third, categorize and file your notes. The reason why this kind of system is so effective at helping us retain more of what we read comes down to how our brain's process information. Over time, we've developed a sorting process to help us determine what information to hold onto in our explicit memory. That's the type of long-term memory that's concerned with recollection of facts and events. Thanks to what's known as heuristic memory processing, we tend to prioritize information that is frequently used, recently used, or likely to be needed to make decisions. So becoming a better learner is all about putting in the work. Reading, taking notes, studying, and making use of the information that you're taking in. In other words, having a system like Ryan's. And while Ryan said that he enjoys audiobooks and e-books, he thinks that there's an advantage to going analog. I do tend to find the people who are like, oh, I listen to a lot of audiobooks, or I listen to, I read a lot of e-books. The recalls not there. They're like, I do my highlights, but they just go somewhere on my computer. I think there is something about getting away from the screen, and sitting down and engaging deeply with the world in front of you. All right, so I have completely finished reading, encouraging us calling, and I have taken extensive notes throughout. So I am a slow reader in this process of taking thorough notes throughout the entire book. Definitely slow me down even more, probably by 30 or 40%. But the idea is that hopefully this will make these memories and ideas just a little bit more sticky. Now I need to go through this entire book and take all of my notes, all of the best notes that I've taken, and put them down onto these new cards. So this video is sponsored by my friends over at Squarespace. I've been using Squarespace for nearly a decade for one main reason. They make it insanely easy for me to bring my ideas to life. Let me show you what I mean. Let's say that you've got an idea for a website where you teach people how to improve their memory. You start off by going to Squarespace.com to grab your new domain name. Matt remembers everything.com. Next you browse through dozens of beautifully designed templates to find the one that feels the most like you. And then the fun part begins. With a few clicks you can add a hero image to your homepage. You can start your very own newsletter and outline your core business offerings. You could even start doing online coaching and earn money through your very own e-commerce store. You could call them memory mentorships. You know, that's actually a really good idea. Let me write that down. With Squarespace, you can scale your business with detailed analytics, scheduled posts, and so much more. It's never been easier to build a website to share your special gift with the world. Visit squarespace.com today for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com slash Matthew Yvelett to say 10% of your first purchase of a website or domain. When you support Squarespace by clicking the link in the description down below this video, you're also supporting my channel. So thanks for considering. So now that I've gotten two thirds of the way into this note taking experiment, it's become clear that this is a very slow and methodical process. If you're anything like me, this can make you feel a bit antsy. But what I continue to remind myself is that this isn't about becoming superhuman and devouring books in a day. It's about taking the time to digest the information, think critically about it, and to try to find ways to reuse and repurpose what I'm learning. And really, more importantly, to actually enjoy the process. Reading is a pleasurable activity. I enjoy doing it. And so you would never hear someone be like, dude, I have the fastest sex. You would not believe it, right? Or like, you should see how fast I can scarf down food at this fancy restaurant. I'm having a conversation with earnest Hemingway, or Marcus Aurelius, or Doris Kerns Goodwin. These are like the best people in the world at what they do. I want to enjoy that. Like, I'm going to take my time doing it. So I have finished taking the best ideas, notes, stories, and quotes from this book and put them down on to about 20 to 30 note cards. And now is the point in the process where I need to go through and organize all this. One thing that I've realized from this process is that you don't remember things by accident, which means I need to systematize and organize all of these notes into different buckets, categories, and themes. It's probably too early to tell whether this system will improve my memory in the long run. I have a feeling I'm still going to be on the goldfish end of the memory scale. But I've learned something even more important over the past few weeks of following this system. You actually can't remember everything you want to. You just need to store it outside of your brain. Oh, and if you're wondering whether I'll keep this up myself, maybe, but I don't know if it will look exactly like this. I don't know how many boxes of no cards I can have at my place, and still keep my sanity. How many boxes of no cards do you have? Well, at least one for every single book that I've written, but I'm looking I have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven in my office right now. My system is an amalgamation combination of raw ingredients, and yours can be your own spin on mine. Whether you decide to follow an analog system like Ryan's or go digital, the important thing is to just get started. You're better off starting imperfectly than being paralyzed by the hope or the delusion of perfection. My system has evolved over the years. It will continue to evolve. Maybe there's some version of the future where it does become digital. But right now, this is what works for me, and the main thing is that I'm doing it always, and I'm getting better as I go. Thanks so much for watching this video. If you liked it, don't forget to hit subscribe, and especially that little notification bell, so you get future videos from me that way you don't have to work too hard to remember to watch my videos later. By the way, my exploration into memory and learning is only just beginning. Stay tuned in a couple weeks for a new video about how to build a second brain by taking all the information we consume, and putting it into an intelligent digital system. It's the complete ecosystem of apps that you use to manage your information. Thanks for watching, and I'll catch you next time.
