# 50k Subscribers in 2 Months!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s0CBDmlwNB0
http://minimalistfilmmaker.com
☝More stuff from me here

Hey wow cool that was weird. It seems like I got my first 50k subscribers out of nowhere. And I guess it kind of was. In this video I wanted to talk about that crazy growth. I also want to tell you some things that you probably don't know about me. Don't worry I'm not a werewolf.

Thanks so much for subscribing and being a part of my channel. Your support means the world to me.

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** gain, subscribers, 2 months, film, filmmaking, youtuber, youtube subscription, 50k, minimalism, simple living, behind the scenes, get youtube subscribers, matt davella, minimalist, content, content creator, get followers, learn, grow, transformation, 
**Date:** 2018-03-26

## Transcript
 Yeah, so that was weird. It seems like it just happened overnight. It really happened in the span of about two months that I got my first 50,000 subscribers. And I'm just my minds kind of blown. Like, I just, I don't, I just wasn't expecting things to happen that quickly. And I'm incredibly excited and really humbled that you guys are connecting with the message I'm putting out there as well as the videos that I'm making. So in this video, I want to, since there's a lot of new people here, I want to tell you a little bit more about myself. Before we do that, I'm sure people are probably a little bit interested in how I was able to have that kind of growth that quickly. So I'm going to break that down real quick. First off, this truly wasn't overnight. I've been a filmmaker my entire life ever since high school when I picked up Sony handy cam. A year ago, I started to make the transition from a freelance filmmaker to making original content full time. Just recently, I cut off all client work, something that was completely terrifying to me to put my head down and do the work. One of the first videos that took off for me was my minimalist apartment. I followed it up with two videos every week on minimalism, creativity, and building something for yourself. My audience started to grow from there. Then I got a huge bump when YouTube featured me on their trending page as a creator on their eyes. Oh, we, you know, we can overthink the reasons my videos did well, but here's the main thing. I put in a lot of work. I tried to tell stories that I found interesting, and while I tried the cracked jokes that'd be funny in my videos, I didn't want them to just be sketches. I wanted people to be able to actually get some value and some practical insights out of them. Here's what I didn't do. I didn't spend excessive amounts of time on clever thumbnails, titles, tags, and trying to reverse engineer my content to find something people would like. At this point, you probably know that I'm a minimalist, I'm a filmmaker, and I made that documentary minimalism because I think I've said it in about the intro to every video. Don't worry, I'm going to stop doing that. But here are some things that you probably don't know about me. I uploaded my first YouTube video back in college, and it was a parody rap video that got my brother and I sued for over a million dollars landing us on national television. They're suing you guys now for at least they're saying a million dollars in damages, and a parent company released a statement that says the video shows them licking, gesturing, and doing absolutely deplorable things with produce. In that interview, I'm actually, you could probably tell, but I'm wearing my brother's shirt and tie and pants. You know, I was a broke college student with a moppy head of hair, with no money. So clearly this story deserves a video in and of itself, so for now, I'm going to leave it at that. Also legally, I think I've set too much. All right, here's another thing you might not know about me. I graduated with $97,000 in student loan debt, and did the only logical thing I could think of at the time, I bought a brand new car. I eventually grew my freelance business, moved out of my parents' basement, and paid off all of my student loans, and the car alone within four years. A lot of times, we like to think about the future. People tell you to put together a business plan, if you're going to start a business, and you're expected to grow, if in this, and that, and it's all nonsense. We try to think about the future and plan it out because we don't like certainty. But what I've found in my life is that if you just put in the work, you put your head down, and you bust your ass every single day, you will surprise yourself at how far you can go, and how much you can grow in a really short period of time. And two more random things that I was a part of. You might have seen this video a little while back that I shot, and my friend John directed, called St. Sees. All right, everybody quiet. Okay, we're here today to talk about a pressing issue. And finally, one of my favorite photos of all time, a picture that made the front page of Reddit, my buddy and I running the Spartan race as the ambiguously gay duo. All right, so one last thing that I wanted to talk about before I wrap this video up, and I think it's an important thing to say. So this legitimately happened to me today. I stumbled across this guy his YouTube channel. His name is Peter McKinnon, incredible YouTuber. You've probably heard of him. I just recently discovered him myself, and he released a video about him being on YouTube for one year. Now, if you don't know about him, he creates amazing, beautiful work. He's got over almost close to two million subscribers, and he did all that within one year. And I couldn't help, like when I first saw that, and I first started, I watched that video and saw his story. I couldn't help but think like, just get like so, I was just felt terrible. I was like, oh my god, look at how, first of all, he's incredibly talented. I'm like, I'm never going to be that good. I'm like, this filmmaker is unbelievable. They're kind of stuff. He's making he's traveling all over the world. He's making these beautiful videos. And he got two million subscribers in a goddamn year. I'm like, oh my god, I'm like, I'm so far off. I'm like, I would never going to be able to do that. I'm I'm not talented enough. Like, I just kept like, I just, I noticed myself. I ran into this pattern, and then I caught myself. And I'm like, holy shit, you just got 50,000 subscribers from like, having nothing. And then now here, you seeing this other guy who's done so much, and that is actually making you feel like shit. And I had to just take a step back. I'm like, what do you do? Why are you thinking that? That's the worst thought to be having at this moment. You should be grateful for what you have. I took a step back and I also was like, wait a minute, if I'm feeling this way, people are probably also going to feel this way about me to see, oh my god, he got 50,000 subscribers in two months. I've been pounding away, making videos for years. I've only got 22 subscribers. And so I wanted to especially make this message in this video to tell you that, no, it's, that's not what is going to make you happy. It's not going to make you happy to get a certain X number of subscribers or views or whatever. That's not the point. And that's not why I do this. Sometimes we can fall into that trap, even though we're not in a nine to five corporate route, route, we can still drop into the rat race sometimes and slip back into it. So it's about being mindful and aware. And no matter what, it's not the views, not the subscribers, it's going to make you happy. What's going to make you happy is finding something that fulfills you, something that you can do every single day, that you're proud of, that you love, that you enjoy, that you can share with your family and friends. Like, that is going to be what makes you happy. So that's what I wanted to leave you with today. And again, just thank you so much for subscribing. Thank you so much for being a part of my journey. And I'm really looking forward to growing with you. Thanks so much for watching. As always, you can get behind the scenes content on my Instagram. That's at Matt Diavella. And if you like podcasts, I've got one of those. It's called The Ground Up Show. And I grapple with ideas like the one in this video. I've got so many great guests from film makers to newscasters, athletes and wrappers. Go to groundupshow.com for the podcast. See you next time.
