# A Day in the Life of a Productivity Expert
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s9rtAsd-b54
https://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
☝️ Get my Monday morning newsletter for articles on self-development & productivity!

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links. All are my genuine recommendations): 
Teux Deux: http://teuxdeux.com/?via=matt

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2021-08-05

## Transcript
 Hi my name is Matt and I'm a certified productivity expert. If you want to maximize productivity in your day you need to remove friction and increase efficiencies. That's why I give myself no more than four minutes to prepare for work. Some people put butter in their coffee because it provides long-lasting energy. I cut out the middleman and start my day with a stick of butter. My daily journaling practice is an essential part of my morning routine. I start by using my 37-step micro minute planning process to map out every minute of my day in detail. To the untrained eye it's tedious but to a certified productivity expert it's my intellectual property that allows me to monetize my work in a way that separates myself from the competition and now that it's 5pm it's time to get to work. Okay so truth be told that is not at all what my days look like but if you're subscribed to this channel you already know that while I'm not a certified productivity expert I am somebody who likes to geek out about productivity and talk about it on this channel and dive into ways that we can be more efficient with our days and one of the ways that I like to keep it real is by showing what my actual days look like and so in this video I want to share a productivity vlog with you. This is what my days actually look like. I walk you through everything from organizing my to-do list planning out phone calls and everything in between and so I just want to show you that productivity isn't always what it seems like and you don't always get done what you think you're gonna get done and so let's get into it. So this is how my hair looks when I wake up. No it does not always look perfect this is it so it's just after 530 a.m. and you should don't wake up this early you know most of the time I'd wake up between 6 or 7 but Natalie has been waking up around 4 a.m. because she's been working with clients in the United States we're currently in Sydney and so I wake up a little bit early we just find because I'm a morning person in any way so time to start the day. I'll jokes aside I do try to make my mornings as easy as possible to build momentum so I typically prepare my clothes the night before work and I grind up my coffee the night before so I can start brewing right away. Sounds like you're on an airplane. I'm doing vlogs with say hi to YouTube. Mark, so tell people what it's like to work with me. Hashtag slow growth. So I've got a really busy day plan today I have 6 phone calls scheduled in for the morning try to batch all of them for one day and so it makes for a bit of a crazy day and so first thing I got 30 minutes here so I want to quickly check my email see if there's anything urgent in there go through my to-do list as well as my calendar just to make sure I'm across everything that's happening today. You can see the entire week from a bird's eye view here in an app that I use called to-do. So I typically like to keep my to-do list each day to around 3 to 5. I would say primary items like the most important tasks for the day but sometimes on the day like today there's a bunch of small things that I need to do and I don't want to forget about them and so that's why you'll see a list like this that's a little bit longer than normal so you can see right at the top I've got phone calls from 7 a.m. to 12 p.m. I've got a little bit of a break in between there filming productivity vlog that's what I'm doing right now right newsletter so I've written this week's newsletter for my personal newsletter and then I'm gonna write next week's review slow growth newsletter that's a new little project I've been working on review social assets import productivity vlog send out trial projects that's for the people that I'm planning on hiring just sending them out the test project to see how they do to see if they can kind of fit within the style that I'm trying to create for slow growth and then finally talk about slow growth newsletter in this video that's what I'm gonna do right now so over the past three months in secret I've been working with my team to develop a newsletter. I wanted to make a self-development newsletter that I would subscribe to it so my standards were insanely high with this thing and I am so proud of what we've been able to create for you. Start your week every Monday with snail mail. In this once a week newsletter you'll get original articles on self development and productivity as well as a digest of inspiring articles from around the internet and yes it's free. It is if I do say so myself really freaking good. I just want to be able to provide some really great self development advice and yeah I subscribe to it I think you should too. Go check it out in the description below. But yeah you can see my day to day is really just booked up with lots of phone calls. I've got six phone calls today. These phone calls are with slow growth candidates so I've gone through this crazy process where we got about 2,000 plus applications in for some jobs that we're hiring for for slow growth. I'm really trying to build a creative team to help me make really awesome self development content and so that's been so much work. This has been my life for the past really month or so. Last week I got on about 25 phone calls this week. You can see I've got about 9 or 10 but it's also a really exciting process. I thought that I would hate this because I'm kind of like I don't know. I work by myself often. I don't do a lot of phone calls but speaking with other people, you know what? It's good. It's good for your soul and it's been great to talk with other creatives and people that I've been inspired by and so yeah I'm excited for today actually. I think it's going to be great. Hey how's it going? Oh no I'm just talking to myself. Yeah no this is just B-roll. Yeah sometimes what you have to do is you got to film B-roll of yourself saying anything. So let's talk about productivity for a moment. So the two most productive things that you can do when you look at your to-do list is to select a item and either delete it or delegate it. The leading it is something that's pretty easy for me you know as somebody who's intentional I really like to think through what I'm doing and making sure that I'm not just spinning my wheels or doing something just to do it and so that comes naturally to me but delegating something is something that I haven't done as much of. Now it's easier for the skills that I clearly don't have whether it's something like design or coding for a website. It's easy for me to hire for those things because I don't know what I'm doing but when it comes to all the other elements of making a video I find that in the past I haven't been really great at delegating it but I have also found that's really limiting for myself just because when you delegate somebody when you find somebody who's amazing who can do the job better than you let's say it's a video editor or an animator they make what you're doing better and they also allow you to free up your time and so being productive is like allocating your time and your resources appropriately and so that's something that I'm just getting into. I think for the longest time I've been a little bit hesitant to do it because yes I'm a bit of a perfectionist. I have very high standards for everything that I make as you might know from watching my channel and so it's been something I've been hesitant to do but it's something lately that I realize I have to do if I want to reach my goals if I want to create the things that I want to create without burning out because I can certainly try to do it all myself but that's I've tried to do that before and it usually doesn't work out well and so that's why I'm having all these phone calls that's why I've been doing all these interviews that's why I'm building the team at slow growth because it's something that I really believe in and I think if I can pull together the right team members we can make something amazing together and yes I might even be more productive in the process so that's kind of where I'm at right now in terms of how I view productivity deleting something's great doing it yourself is okay delegating something that's where it's at okay so for lunch today I have some delicious leftovers from a local spot in Bandai called the char so this right here some Perry Perry sauce oh so good is it healthy I don't care I'm working hard I get to reward myself and right here I've got some beautiful leftover chicken and some uh is it called tahini tahini that right is it tahini tahini I don't know how to spell it no that's not tahini what is that to bully is it to bully it's to bully it's to bully which as everybody knows is traditional in the Arab world so yeah I'm pretty cultured what can I say I eat the bully okay real talk for a minute my wife Natalie obviously from Australia from Sydney originally she would tell me about the wonders of the Australian chicken shop I was like yeah no like we've got we've got chain shops like that's of course yeah we've got chicken we do roast we do it we don't do it in America like coming to Australia one of my favorite things are the chicken shops they're so the chicken is unreal the stuffing you go into one of these chicken shops they've got like 40 chickens to a vegan this is gonna sound horrifying to a carnivore like me this is what I dream about they do cheese cakes in cups it's amazing like I'm like what is how come cheese cake hasn't always come in a cup where have that has this band my whole life so when I get really busy I do tend to order out quite a bit I try to eat as healthy as I can when I order out this meal is relatively healthy it's not it's not awful so right now it's almost one o'clock PM which means I have about an hour left of work to do before I wrap up for the day I know this because I started setting an alarm and so there's my alarm right there two PM stop working with a little love heart emoji so I started setting this alarm clock because when you're waking up early you can have a tendency to work until the the typical time that most people finish up work around four or five PM maybe six PM but when you're waking up at five that would mean that you'd be working for twelve plus hours a day and that's not sustainable to me working twelve hours a day consistently would be the fastest way to leave me to burn out and so what I've started to do because I am so passionate about my work I love my work I've set this alarm clock two PM three PM depending on upon what time I start and it's a reminder for me to put the laptop down and say okay that's it that's enough for today I've gotten as far as I possibly could in one day let me rest and relax for the rest of my day let me show you guys my two-do list to see how I actually did today did I get all the things done that I set out to do I did not get a chance to write the newsletter today just one of those things where it's hard to get in a creative mindset to write when I am doing all these phone calls and really activating an entirely different part of my brain I'm probably just going to push that to Thursday that way it's matched up with a right YouTube video I feel like that's like I can get into a state of flow where I write the newsletter it'll help me kind of get into that flow writing the YouTube video import productivity vlog footage that's what I need to do right after I finish shooting this little shot here and I talked about the slow growth newsletter in this video if you guys haven't yet subscribed to my new newsletter for slow growth go check it out go to slowgrowth.com slash newsletter or click the link in the description below it's one of my favorite self development newsletters that I subscribe to and I think it's going to be your favorite as well so I think that's it yeah I think I'm just going to import this footage and then wrap up my day thanks for watching my friends and I will see you next time bye
