# I read 100 self-help books. Here’s what I learned…
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S_V4CdP6aLA
https://slowgrowth.com/newsletter 
☝️ Don’t have time to read 100 books? Get my weekly emails for the best self-help content on the Internet.

I read 100 self-help books. From The Power of Now to Deep Work, to Daring Greatly and Awaken the Giant Within. You can say that I have a bit of a problem. But I learned so much from these books, and the lessons might change the way you look at self-help.

---

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 Credits
Directed by Matt D'Avella
Produced by Emma Norris & Matt D’Avella
Associate Produced by Nicole Tabak
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, 
**Date:** 2022-05-16

## Transcript
 It wasn't that long ago that self-help was seen as a secret vice. You might quietly browse the self-help section at a bookstore or attend a live conference without telling your wife. You gotta leave before you can do. You gotta do before you can help. And oh how times have changed. Self-help has gone from fringe to mainstream, from cringe to binge. How the f*** is everyone? We can't get enough of it, from courses to documentaries and surprisingly handsome YouTubers. The self-help industry is invoked, and while the mediums with which we consume it continue to change, the backbone has always been the self-help book. Over the past six years, the number of self-help books released in the US has nearly tripled, growing from 30,000 to over 85,000 books. And I read a hundred of them, from the power of now to deep work, to daring greatly and awaken the giant within. You can say that I have a bit of a problem, but I've learned so much from reading so many of them, and the lessons I learned might change the way you look at self-help. This is one of the best-selling self-help books ever written. First published in 1936 by Dale Carnegie, how to win friends and influence people is a classic. In the book, he quotes a British philosopher Herbert Spencer, who said, the great aim of education is not knowledge, but action. And this is an action book. And this lesson from over 100 years ago is one of the most important lessons I've learned from reading over 100 self-help books. Taking action, no matter how small, is the key to making progress. You can devour all of the self-help books in the world, but if you're not actually implementing the concepts you're learning, you may as well be reading fiction. So if you're reading a book about personal finance, then test out the author's suggestion to pay for everything with cash. If you're reading a book about exercise, then take the author's advice to dust off your sneakers and walk 10,000 steps a day. If the goal is to actually make improvements in your life, whether it's for your business, finances, or mental health, it's essential to make sure that you're taking these small steps forward, not just theorizing what might actually work. A good rule of thumb is to pick at least three concepts from every book and to put them into practice immediately. The best books make it easy. One of the most memorable examples from me came from a book called The Flinch. In the book, author Julian Smith shows how we often flinch in the face of fear. He uses the example of an amateur boxer. The first few time someone throws a jab at a boxer's face, they're going to flinch out of sheer instinct. But if you want to be world-class, or even have a decent shot at not getting your ass kicked, you need to retrain this instinct. The same goes for creative pursuits and living a meaningful life. In the book he says, one of real visceral examples of what the flinch feels like, try this. When you're at home and have five minutes, go to your bathroom, walk up to your shower, and turn on the cold water. He then encourages the reader to ditch the excuses and jump straight into the ice cold water. I just think they remember reading the section of the book years ago and thinking there is no way in hell that I'm going to jump into a cold shower right now. But the more I thought about it, the more I realized, you know what, maybe I actually should be putting some of these lessons into practice. Maybe I should embrace the flinch and see what happens, and so I jumped into a cold shower. As Julian explains, when we repeatedly expose ourselves to these kinds of flanges, both big and small, from asking out that huge stranger to giving a live talk in front of hundreds of people, we can start to overcome fear and build the life we want. The truth is, most people don't actually finish the books they start, let alone put the lessons into action. As Tony Robbins writes in the opening chapter of his classic book, A Wake in the Giant Within, less than 10% of people who buy a book read past the first chapter. I challenge you not only to do whatever it takes to read this book in its entirety, unlike the masses who quit, but also to use what you learn in simple ways each day. When I look at the list of the 100 self-help books that I've read, it's almost impossible to remember more than two or three takeaways from each book, yet they're all brimming with life-changing insights. One of the biggest mistakes I made early on was not taking better notes while reading. While I've since fixed this bad habit, I was often too precious with my books. I didn't want to earmark the pages or annotate the text. But if you read a lot, it's essential to track the important lessons and take away is that you glean from the pages, otherwise it'll just go in one ear and out the other. Author Ryan Holiday is religious about no taking while reading. He says, the key to my system is the ritual. Read a book or an article and diligently mark the passages and portions that stand out to you. If you have a thought, write it down on the page. So the exact system isn't as important as having a simple way to capture and organize information. It's all about finding a strategy that works for you. So highlight the best ideas, underlying the most thoughtful quotes, use post-it notes to remember the most impactful sections, or keep a notes app open while reading. If you read a hundred self-help books and you don't take any notes on what you learn, you're going to be wasting so much time. You'll want to come back to this information in the future so you need to make it as easy as possible to find exactly what you're looking for. Because oftentimes, the things that are taught in these books need to be relearned over and over and over again. This is one of the reasons that I've started to read physical books again. The convenience of audiobooks and digital e-readers is huge, and I still use them to this day, but nothing beats reading from an actual book. Sure the tactile feeling of reading a book is nice, but it's also easier to take notes, find exactly what you're looking for in the future, and it's so much more sticky for your brain to read from a physical book than to listen to an audiobook. One of the biggest benefits that I found from reading self-help books is that the authors essentially became my mentors. When I got started out, I didn't have actual mentors. I didn't personally know anyone who had started a freelance filmmaking business, or who had made a feature length documentary, or who made YouTube videos for a living. I'm not sure where to look, I'm not sure what to do with my hands. I had nobody to talk to about this stuff, so I relied on books instead. While I couldn't hop on a call with Bernabre on Seth Goden or Gretchen Rubin, I could open up a book to learn everything they have to share about leadership, marketing, and happiness. There's a disproportionate amount of value in self-help books, think about it. For just $15, you can get access to some of the smartest people in the world to hear how they approached some of the same obstacles that you're facing today. If you're not reading self-help books right now, you're missing out on a ton of invaluable content that could change your life, and save you a lot of time. But that said, just because something work for the author doesn't mean it's going to work for you. One of the biggest mistakes that people make while reading self-help books is to blindly follow whatever advice is being shared. As Katie Milkman argues in her book how to change, when policymakers, organizations or scientists applied one size fits all strategy to change behavior, the results were mixed, but when they began by asking what stood in the way of progress and then developed target strategies to change behavior, the results were far better. The best self-help books challenge us to think critically. The worst ask us to blindly follow a step-by-step plan. As a reader, it's your responsibility to question everything and ask yourself, how can I adapt this to work for my life? If you're a gentle, empathetic person, that aggressive sales advice you read in that marketing book is probably never going to feel right for you, no matter how well the author promises it'll work. You want to play hardball, huh? Well, that's great because when it comes to balls, I'm the one that's going to be rubbing you in wrong way. Oh my god, I didn't mean it like that, I am so sorry. What's important is to be able to go in with an open mind. Find three things that you can test and hopefully find one thing that will stick for the long run. This, of course, doesn't always happen, but it's a really good goal to stick to. The best thing about self-help becoming mainstream and democratized is that there's something for everyone, at every stage of their self-development journey. Whether you're looking to build better habits, improve your focus, get healthier, or simply feel happier, you can gain advice from someone who's already done it. But what's important to remember is that ultimately self-help is about the self. That's you. The piece of content you consume, consider how you can be an active participant in your own journey by questioning, implementing, and taking action in your own life. Because while it's great to take inspiration from some of these brilliant thinkers who came before you, you need to be your own guru. So if you want more anti-preaching, non-prescriptive, self-help advice that you can instantly apply to your own life, then you might enjoy my weekly newsletter called Snailmail. Get original articles and a digest of the best self-development content on the internet People have been saying some really nice things about it. I couldn't put it down because of how interesting the topics were. It was so much more than I expected it to be. Snailmail is sooooo fucking good. You can sign up for these free Monday morning emails at slowgrowth.com slash newsletter, or you can click the little link in the description below this video. Hope you enjoyed this one. Thank you so much for watching.
