# I lied to you...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SjNB4HL1R5M
This video is for Natalie.
**Keywords:** proposal, proposal video, love, engagement, marriage proposal, engage, propose, best marriage proposal, marriage, film, filmmaking, filmmaker, travel, best of, top, new, youtube, amazing, cute, 
**Date:** 2018-07-16

## Transcript
 Oh my god, I'm gonna cry! Stop filming every day! Honey! I love you! That's why you kept staring at me like an absolute idiot! It's hard to imagine that we almost never met. I remember thinking about that a lot early on. You moved halfway around the world from Australia on whim. No job, little savings. Because you said you only live once. You didn't care that it was cliche. Some people call it a spark or a connection. We called it biping and popping. There was an energy between us that's never left. From our first date to our first apartment, it was always there. So two months ago, I lied to you. I told you that I booked a round trip flight from L.A. to Philly to visit my family. What I actually did was book a getaway for the two of us. My family was him on it. Natalie and I aren't going to Philly, which is like... Yeah, so this is like a proposal weekend. Oh my god! You got you crying, Mike? No, it's Irish. You get emotional, dawg. Hey, you got to keep the secret. Don't tell anybody. The day before the trip, I had them tell you. Natalie. Yeah. Come here. What? Go quiet. Come here, come here. Come here, come here. Come on, come on. Oh. What are you doing? I know. I know. Hey, Natalie. Natalie, you are so lucky. I heard Matt playing something special for you. It's been the works for a very long time. You're not going to Philly. You're going someplace special. Honestly, I'm personally offended. I wasn't invited. Super excited for you. Can't wait to hear all about your amazing traps. First of all, we have Matt and Uncle Matt. I'm not going to fall there. I'll say hi to them. Have a really great trip. And we can't wait to see you letting you get back. We're going to be looking forward to it. Bye, Dad, I'm going to trip. Have a great trip. I'm going to make a lot of luck. We love you and we'll talk to you soon. Kissing. What? For where? We're going to coast Rica. No. What? What? What? Honey. It's been two months in the work. I'm lucky. Let's trip down to your special trip. It's going to be an engaging weekend. No, you're lying. No, you're lying. So we packed our bags. We packed our bags and left for Costa Rica. Even though you knew the real reason of the trip, I still had some extra surprises planned. Like first class tickets. All right, go to premium. No, you're lying. Yeah, we have first class. No, you're lying. What? What? We never fly first class. We never fly first class. Yeah. In the morning, I'm going to check. And I spent five years with the credit card points on this hotel, because you're only the ones. Then I took you down to the beach for one more surprise. What? I love you. I love you. I love you. Yeah. I love you. I love you. No, you're lying. I love you. You're really lying. You're lying. Yeah. I love you. You're lying. You're lying. I love you. I love you. I promise. I will. You're lying. I love you. You're lying. You like me? I do. I can't believe that. I can't believe... I'm nearly here. I'm not gonna go one day. This is not the moment. No. Thes really nice. Permid? I think he could do it. He could do it, huh? Don't. I didn't think he had on him here. I'm not gonna go one day.
