# How to Stop Giving a F*ck
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sLtki8Ezz7c
I'm Hiring a Filmmaker: http://mattdavella.com/editor


🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links. All are my genuine recommendations)
Own Your Weird by Jason Zook: https://amzn.to/31UFXbP

🎥 Credits:
Cinematographer: Conrad Golovac (http://conradgolovac.com)
Cinematographer: Matt D'Avella
Music: "I've No More F*cks to Give" by Thomas Benjamin Wild
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdiqOyAeu__yBOZBt_Op0JQ
https://open.spotify.com/track/0R4EcD2e5m9wsMmWVVbBOc?si=psjR7V_LQ4K8ddWgXiw0_g

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** how to not give a fuck, how to stop giving a fuck, stop giving a fuck, how to, not giving a fuck, how to stop caring what people think of you, how to be confident, how to stop caring, how to stop worrying, how to not give a f, how to stop giving a f, 
**Date:** 2019-09-10

## Transcript
 If you're anything like me, you've spent far too many hours worrying, worrying what other people think, worrying whether people like you worrying if your friends will notice that you overcooked your gluten-free banana bread. But you have to wonder, what if you spent less time carrying what other thought about you, and instead use that energy for something positive? Put another way, what if you stop giving a fuck? Not giving a fuck is a cultural phenomenon. Blogs, books, podcasts, and memes tell us that one of the biggest sources of discontent is the fact that we care too much what other people think. So if you don't care about something, you should stop giving your fucks to it. In so many ways, we idolize and admire those who are weird enough to create their own lane. Those who are able to ignore critics, skeptics, and naysayers. Are you listening to me, sir? Sir, I'm talking to you! But when it comes to our own lives, we tend to shrink up at the first sign of rejection. It's something I've struggled with my entire life. While I've learned how to deal with criticism, and I've ignored it long enough to lead an unconventional life for myself, I still have a long way to go. The latter, how irrational it is, there's something deep inside made that wants to be liked and accepted and welcomed in by everyone. Since I know I can't overcome this alone, I asked my bald-headed friend Jason Zook to come help me. He's the author of Own Your Weird, and has made a name for himself by doing weird things. He once made over a hundred thousand dollars by selling his last name. For a year, he became JasonHeadsets.com. The way things have always been done is not the way things have to be done. I made a video earlier this year called The Other Side of Burnout, where I share more of Jason's backstory. You can watch that later because, well, Jason's here. Jason, come back, go on in. Jason, thanks so much for being here. I really want to get better and not caring what people think. What should I do? Step one, you've got to shave a mustache. I'm not going to shave my mustache. Do it. Great. Step two, now go buy some short shorts. Personally, as a minimalist. No problem. I brought some. Size 26 waste, right? What does this have to do with not caring what people think? Oh, it doesn't. I just want to see if you do it. Oh. All right. Go. So Jason, why do you think people care so much about what strangers think of them? Well, for thousands of years, we've been heard animals. You know, we've had tribes and you want to stick with your herd because it's scary if you don't. But we don't live in that time anymore. You don't have to stay with the herd. So even in business or life when you're doing something differently, we still have that human instinct to fit in. But we just don't need it anymore, Matt. We can actually own our weird, do our own thing, find our own unique way of doing something. And we don't have to worry about getting eaten by a Saber II tiger. I didn't hear anything you just said. So the times have changed, but our operating system has stayed the same. We're a long way from our distant tribal relatives, yet we continue to seek out the acceptance from friends, family, and anonymous strangers on the internet. Mainly because it makes us feel safe and protected. But being safe is a good thing, right? How could the risk of being an outcast or a reject benefits? What's the case for not giving a fuck? What's the case for not caring what other people think? Why should I do it? Why should people watching this video do it? You're not going to create if you're constantly worried about what people are going to say about what you're making and what you're doing. And sure, there is a certain time to get criticism or feedback or any of those things. But you also just want to put what you want to do out into the world and not have to worry about what other people think. The goal should be to create and to share and to learn from that experience on your own, not just based on what people think of it. It's not easy to do. No, it's not. And it's more difficult in the beginning, especially when you haven't done much in that fear and that imposter syndrome. That's a flare up, you know, a lot. But I just think the more that you do it, I've seen that in my life, the more that I've put out weird ideas. The easier it's gotten to deal with thinking about those things. Fear, criticism, all that stuff comes a lot easier to you. I find it's hard to see in front of us because there's a big swan there is a lot of swan. When we spend our time worrying what others think, it hurts our chances of actually taking action. How many great ideas were never created because someone was worried about what their friends might think of them? How many gym habits were crushed because people thought they were being judged. Even if people are mocking, trolling, or otherwise being a complete dick to you, you can't let it stop you. Otherwise they win. The only real solution is to stop giving a fuck. It's easy to say, like, oh, I don't give a fuck, but when it inactuality, when people say mean things, or when people say that what you made was stupid, it hurts your feelings. Yeah, I've definitely had that. I mean, I've had the projects that have gotten to my negative comments online. And you just have to kind of put on a metal suit of armor that blocks that stuff and keep it out of your mindset. And for me, I just know that I'm doing work that matters to me. I'm not selling out. I'm making money doing things I love, and that is what makes me feel great. So it doesn't really matter what someone on the internet says. Especially if that person hasn't been in the arena like we hear lots of people talk about. So you really have to also figure out where that feedback is coming from or that criticism is coming from. And that also helps you measure, oh, should I take this feedback with any random salt? No, this is someone commenting on the internet and they've never done anything, so I shouldn't listen to them. I'll be honest, I was a little self-conscious leaving the house with a mustache. But the more time I spent peddling around LA with Jason, the less I cared about what others might think of me. They had a problem with it, it was exactly that. They're a problem. That was a fun day. That was a day. That was a day. The facing people in public is one thing dealing with online criticism is another. So I took this in Googling and I was able to find a forum online where people are talking about you. He's just a cheap asshole who won't buy any furniture. It's a couch right here, so it's clearly a lie. I did buy furniture. Yes, I saw it. I can attest it. Cute bod of noxious manner. Anyone know what his feet look like, any picks? He's not attractive enough to be this smug about his lifestyle. The other people have said these, I'm obviously not saying these. Yeah, so I shouldn't make that clear. This is not me. Yeah. He seems exhausting to be around. Boring. The fact that you're laughing, I think, proves the point though. Hold on, I can't. Smug and those stupid IG face shots are insufferable. That said, I'd let him fuck me six ways to say that. That is the thing someone typed on the internet about Matt. That feels good. Yeah. I actually kind of like these contacts. I mean, these are the worst you're getting. This is pretty good. This is pretty good. I learned another big lesson today, and it's that it's much easier to laugh at these comments together than when we're alone at our computer. That suit of armor Jason was talking about earlier is amplified when you surround yourself with people on a similar journey. You can push each other forward. You can share in the struggles and celebrate together in your successes. We'll our fear of rejection ever completely go away. Jason thinks that's unlikely. I think a bit like a smart car. And fear and self-doubt are kind of like sitting next to you in that smart car. There's no place for it to go in the beginning. It's just screaming at you. But then the more you do, that car becomes like a 1983 Ford Tourist. It's a little bit bigger. But fear is still there screaming at you from the back seat, and you can still hear it. But then kind of like video after video, project after project. Year after year, it just gets bigger and bigger until, you know, it's like this long stretch limousine or like one of those creepy white bands. It's like super long. Why does the thing I'm no windows? But like fears in the back, and you can't, you can hear. It's like a muffled sound, but it doesn't dictate where you go. And that to me is what happens over time. In the beginning, it's so close to you. You can't do anything without fear being in your face. But the longer that you do it, the more consistent you are, the more that you show up, the more that you are, your true self, as much as you can be. It does get easier. But it is always still like a muffled sound in the back. It's never gone away for me. Maybe that's because Jason doesn't have a mustache. Because if I'm being completely honest, I don't think I give a fuck about anything anymore. I've tried, tried, tried, and I've tried even more. I've tried, tried, tried, and I can't report for. I've pressed, I've pushed, I've yelled, I've baked in hopes of some success. But the inevitable fact is that you never will impress. I've no more fucks to give. My fuck's a run of dry. I've tried to go fuck shopping, but there's no fucks left to buy. I've no more fucks to give. No more fucks I've tried to get. I'm over my fuck budget. And I've now in fucking depths. I've no more fucks. I've no more fucks. I've no more fucks to give. It's fine. Yeah, it's like a day, you know. There are a lot of actionable steps in here, like get people to like owning their weird. What do you think something for those that are too cheap to buy the book? Which you totally should do. Like if they want to start inviting this today, what's something that they can do? Yeah, I think one of the most important things I've done and learned over the years is just to establish your personal values. So what really matters to you? And so for me, a lot of times it's control. So I want to be in control of all of my projects and my work, much like you do. But then I also need to have some type of uniqueness to it. So that's a core value for me. So every project I do gets filtered through that. Now for people watching this, it may be creativity. It may be structure. It may be family. Like whatever those values are, if you define them, then you know whatever I'm doing as long as it fits with in those values. It becomes a hell yes, but I'm doing it as opposed to just doing things and seeing how they feel. Well, I hope this video fit into those values and you had a good time. There was weird. It was fun. Next man. Oh, hey, before we go, I just need my shorts back. Oh, yes, sorry. Yeah, thank you guys for watching this video. I have a very important announcement to make. But first, I just wanted to thank a couple people. Thank you to Jason Zook for coming by. His book is own your weird. It's really great. I definitely recommend you guys to check it out if you're struggling with owning your weirdness and or not giving any fucks. The book will certainly help you out a lot. There's a link in the description. There's also a link in the description to the person who made that amazing song. His name is Thomas Benjamin Wilde and the song is called. I have no more fucks to give. So check that out. It's really really good if we could support these two independent artists that would mean a lot to me. Speaking of independent artists. The big announcement is I am hiring a video editor. If you're a Los Angeles based video editor, if you are supremely talented and you want to work on Netflix documentaries, if you want to work on YouTube videos, all the content I produce on social media, YouTube Netflix, all that stuff. If you want to work on it, I'm hiring somebody. So go to matdevelop.com slash editor. If you also have chops as a filmmaker, if you can shoot and take photos, that's a huge additional plus. So make sure you write that in the application. Can't wait to hear from you guys. Thanks so much. And I'll see you in the next video. We'll see if I still have this mustache. I'm probably going to have the mustache.
