# Watch This Video Before You Die
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sOMLVlqzw_4
📝 Share your bucket list with us...
Ben: http://instagram.com/bennemtin
Matt: http://instagram.com/mattdavella

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** bucket list, lifestyle, lifestyle design, die, death, dying, life, living, simple living, habits, habit change, Matt D'Avella, Ben Nemtin, before i die, 
**Date:** 2019-12-03

## Transcript
 You are going to die. I don't say that to be morbid or sensational. I say it as a reminder. Because as certain as we are of that truth, most of us are living like that's not the case. But when you truly wake up to the fact that you will die one day and make each decision through that lens, you'll learn that death can teach you everything you need to know about living. When you really digest your mortality, you start to think, okay, what's really important? That's Ben Nempton. Back in 2006, Ben and his friends packed into a purple RV and went on a road trip that would change their lives. The catalyst for the trip was a 150-year-old poem called The Buried Life. So they actually were four lines that really kind of struck us. But often in the world's most crowded streets, but often in the din of strife, they're rising in a speakable desire after the knowledge of our buried life. And so the poem basically talks about how the day-to-day buries what you really want to do. And you have moments when you're inspired, but then that just gets buried by a life. And so we're like, oh, this guy is feeling the same way we feel. And then we thought, okay, how do we embarrass our dreams? And we decided to ask this question, what do you want to do before you die? Because thought of death was the only thing that shook us enough into the present moment to actually realize what was truly important. And when we asked ourselves that question, there were many answers. And so that's how the bucket list followed. They made a bucket list of 100 things they wanted to do before they died. And then embarked on a road trip to cross the items off the list. Some of the things were easy, like going to Burning Man, and others were a bit more far-fetched. Like playing basketball with President Obama. We are standing outside of the White House. Along the way, they decided to help strangers check items off their own lists. They'd ask that question, what do you want to do before you die? If they could help others achieve that goal, they would. And as we traveled, people started to hear about it and they would reach out and be like, hey, I saw this item on your list, I can help you. You know, here's my dream, can you guys help me? And this two-week road trip just continued and continued and continued and ultimately, all these things that we put on the list that we were convinced were impossible, ultimately ended coming off the list. It seems like a complete no-brainer, right? We're all going to die someday, so we might as well go after the things that we want most. We should start that business, run the marathon, reconnect with a family member, because well, you've only got one shot. We all know this, so why aren't we taking action? Like, right? Like, we should obviously go after the things that we want to in life. We obviously have a finite amount of time to do it in. Why isn't everybody creating bucket lists and going out and achieving and attempting to achieve all the things they've wanted to? I think, like, it's human nature to put off our personal goals. Because if you think about it, there's no deadlines for personal goals, but we have all these deadlines for every other goal set in our life, so we have, you know, we have work goals, we have life goals, and we have birthdays, we have payments, we always have something that has a deadline, and then there's consequences if you don't hit that deadline. With our personal goals, we don't have a deadline, so we're like, I'll do it tomorrow. I'll do it next week, I'll do it next year, until most people realize that crap, like, it's too late. And there's this really interesting study from this psychologist at Cornell, who basically talked with all these people on their deathbed and found that most people, at the end of their life, don't regret the things they did. They regret the things they didn't do. And 76% of people, when they hit their deathbed, they're number one regret in their entire life, is living a life someone else wanted for them, not themselves. As Ben and I talked, I couldn't help but think of my wife Natalie. Earlier this year, she decided to do something she never thought should have the courage to do. She quit her job to try to start her own business. What did you do? I quit my job today. To say that fear entered the equation would be a huge understatement. Fear swallowed her alive. Can't believe you did it. It was terrifying. I probably used the word terrifying like 18 times when I quit. There is a cost to going after your dreams. You will likely face sleepless nights. You'll have to sacrifice some weekends and vacations. There will certainly be people who talk behind your back, people who just don't get it, and people that think you're an idiot for even trying. There will be crippling self-doubt, random bouts of panic, and you'll come to the brink of quitting again and again. These are all things that Natalie has faced over the past eight months and continues to face to this day. And I'm not gonna lie. It's terrifying. Yes, there is a cost to chasing after your dreams, but it panels in comparison to the cost of not doing it. If you are at a crossroads and you're thinking, okay, do I take a left turn and go after my dream? Or do I continue to go down this path? Because there are a lot of risks and I don't know if it's the right decision. Just picture yourself on your deathbed. Looking back onto this moment and will your future self regret not doing it. And if yes, then you have to do it. For every person like Natalie that decides to act in their dreams, there are thousands of others who shrink away from the challenge. So I wanted to get real practical with Ben, and ask him how you might be able to change your own story. How should you go about writing a bucket list? And how could you practically go after the things on it? So first, like, kind of forget everything you know about a bucket list. And I think that immediately we think about bucket list. We think of skydiving. We think of, you know, adventure list items, where adventure is one category of life. There are 12 categories of life. Spiritual, emotional, physical, material. There's no rules for a bucket list. The only rules that it's important to you. Big or small. So anything that you ever wanted to do or that's important to you, you know, it could be more time with your family. You know, it could be booking that trip with your family. It could be building that huge thing. And then write it down. Write it down because that makes it real. Write it down because then you feel accountable. Write it down because you're 42% more likely to achieve it once you write it down. Then you want to share it, right? Like you want to talk about those things that are important with your friends. Ben suggested that it's important to be intentional with your outreach. So if your dream is to make a feature-length documentary, then think about who would be the best person to give you advice on that topic. So who's someone that might know documentary film maker that you can reach out to and say, hey listen, this is something I really want to do. Really badly. This is the most important thing in my life. Right now, could I connect with your friend who's a documentary filmmaker? Just ask him a couple of questions. And then you can pretend that Genie pops up and Genie says, it's a pretty good list. I'm a Genie. I'm going to help you do one thing on your list. But by me helping you achieve that one thing, you can never do anything else you wrote on your list. So like what do you choose? And that's the most important thing on your list. And that's what you want to keep at the top. Death is a strange thing to think about. We see it nearly every day in movies on TV shows and in the media. Sometimes it's comedic, it's often dramatic, but what we're seeing is usually the work of fiction. Even the deaths we see on the news are usually covered from thousands of miles away behind the comfort of our screens. We're rarely confronted with death face-to-face. You talk with people that have had a near-death experience or someone that they love has died. And a lot of times they say, you know, everything changed for me. But like Ben, you don't need to come toe to toe with death to understand that truth. You can be reminded of it through a 150 year old poem or maybe even through a YouTube video. It takes one moment, one decision, and a shift in perspective to change your life. Just remember, you won't be able to get there alone. The only way we cross things off our list is through the help of other people. It was literally people coming to us saying, hey, I can help you with this. You want to ride a bull? My uncle has a bull ranch. You want to make a toast to strangers wedding? My friends getting married, I can get you in. You want to play basketball with President Obama. You may be I can put word into a senator. Through the president's mind, the president just walked up. The more of those big list items that ultimately come to fruition, you suddenly have this moment where you're like, oh my God, I can do anything. You know, and it changes your DNA. Like it actually changes the makeup of how you view life. And then it's not, can I do it? It's do I want to do it? And I know it's going to take a lot of work, a shit ton of work, but I can do it if I want. So now I need to just decide is this something that's really, really important to me. Okay, now it's your turn. I want you to take the next 30 minutes to write down your own bucket list. Don't overthink it. You can change it later. Just start writing. Remember, you're 42% more likely to accomplish your goal if you write it down. And then when you're done, take a photo of it and share it on social media. You can tag band and eye to become your accountability partners. Or tag a friend you'd like the challenge to make a list of their own. By writing this down and sharing your list, you're taking that step that most people never do. And who knows, maybe you'll check a few things off the list. When you put yourself first, you put yourself in a position to serve others. And that's not selfish, that's service. So you need to do those things that you truly love because not only is it the best thing for you, but it's also the best thing for other people. And that's something that I didn't realize growing up. I still thought it was a bit self-serving to do the things that were important to me. But now I realized that that was the best thing I could do and inspired all these other people to do the thing they wanted to do. And I think, honestly, if more people did that, it would change the world. I really believe that.
