# Ground Up 028 - Escaping The Rat Race w/ Melyssa Griffin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SPYJJrCwops
http://www.groundupshow.com

Melyssa Griffin is an entrepreneur that teaches business owners & bloggers how to grow their audience and skyrocket their income. We discuss the importance of building a brand with integrity, the psychology behind why we quit, we reminisce about some of our first paid gigs, and she gives me a ton of practical insights into creating a profitable course for my company.

More from Melyssa:  http://www.melyssagriffin.com
**Keywords:** business, melyssa griffin, grow your audience, why we quit, film, filmmaking, minimalism, podcast, ground up, the ground up show, 
**Date:** 2017-10-11

## Transcript
 Welcome back to the ground up show, I'm Matt Diavella, and today I'm speaking with Melissa Griffin. She's a successful entrepreneur that teaches business owners and bloggers how to grow their audience and skyrocket their income. We discussed the importance of building a brand with integrity, the psychology behind why we quit. We reminisce about some of our first paid gigs, and she gives me a ton of practical insights into creating a profitable course for my company. Advice that I'm sure many of you will be able to act on. It's a great episode and I think you're going to like it, but before we get to that conversation, if you like this podcast and you like minimalism, a documentary about the important things, I've got something for you. I recently conducted interviews with the producers of minimalism to give a detailed look at how we made the film. Those interviews with the minimalist and spire are yours for free. If you leave a review for the ground up show on iTunes, reviews help to get the word out for the show and they help us to continue to do this. To get immediate access to the interviews, take a screenshot of your review and send it to hello at MattDeevella.com. Now, please enjoy my conversation with Melissa Griffin. This is episode 28 with the ground up show. Welcome back to the ground up show. Melissa Griffin, welcome to the show. Thank you, excited to be here. Can you just briefly tell me a little bit about the work you do right now and what you're really passionate about? Yeah, so right now, I, and for the past couple of years, I've taught courses, workshops, and led online communities for people who want to start or grow their own online business. So I teach marketing and social media and email list growth and all that kind of stuff. What I've been getting into more and more recently is not just teaching people the strategies of how to grow business, but teaching them the mindset and the personal development that goes into that as well. Because what I found with myself and something I'm so passionate about now is that I could learn all the tactics, but if I wasn't personally growing, then my business wasn't growing. So I love teaching that aspect now too of like where, what can we heal or fix in your own life that's going to translate into your business, too? Have you always been teacher trying to pass lessons along? Because I feel like this is a new role for me that I've been getting into and it comes with a lot of doubt. Yeah, I feel like teaching is almost this innate thing that I've loved since I was a kid. I remember color coding my brothers' books who's younger than me when I was a kid with like these are the easy ones, medium and hard, and then trying to teach them how to read. Teaching my my beta fish, how to do math, which was a very successful. And then in college and high school, always getting into organizations where I was teaching something. So it feels like this thing for me that's very natural and fun for me to do. I was also a teacher in Japan before I started my business. But there is still that level of doubt. And I think even if you've been doing it for a long time in your life, there's still that sense that is anybody going to listen to this or is anybody going to get results from what I'm teaching. So I definitely resonate with that doubt too. I'm curious about how that doubt manifests. My challenge sometimes is showing people kind of their actual potential and helping them work through these things. So I think you mentioned how do you get over that doubt. And for me, I think it's two things. I think one, it's doing the thing that you're doubting. And I feel like the more you do the thing that you don't think you can do, the more you realize like actually I can kind of do that pretty well. And you get better at it and you build that confidence. It's kind of like with sports or with a business. You realize that it takes practice to get better at doing something. But then we forget that in terms of our own development that we're not going to be good at something the first time we do it. And we almost expect that when you start something, you're like, I should be good at this and I want people to like it. But it takes practice and effort to actually get to that point that people will like it and where you'll feel confident about it. So I think that's number one is just doing it, building that practicing confidence. And then number two is I think all of us have these areas of our life that often come from our past that need to be healed before we can really reach that full potential in our lives. And a lot of people watching right now are listening might be thinking, well, I don't need anything healed about me. I'm doing pretty well, like a had good parents, had a good childhood. I went to a good school or whatever it is. And they feel like they're doing pretty well in their life. And that absolutely might be the case. And for a lot of people it is. But at the same time, there's still little insecurities or there might be a trigger that comes up. Maybe the way a cashier or the grocery store treats you might make you feel upset or angry or maybe the way a friend cancels plans last minute. And that makes you think something about yourself. And we go through life with these little triggers and insecurities. And that manifests into doubt and manifests into anger or a lack of confidence. And we just kind of think that that's a natural part of life. But what I think is that the more we can heal those parts of ourself that we've learned or learned from other people, the more we can be confident and really maximized that potential that we have in our lives. So it's doing it, getting confidence that way and then tealing whatever needs to be mended from your past to really accomplish the things that you want to do. It sounds like a big part of this is growth and continuing to grow and understand that we always have room for improvement. There's always ways in which we can grow and build upon the work we've done in the past as well as the people that we were in the past. Where does your story begin in terms of starting that growth process? One, I think we all do have room for growth. But I also think we're all perfect as we are. It's kind of like this dichotomy of you are an amazing or the perfect person, but you still have things that maybe it would help you in your life to grow. Isn't that like it's a very contradictory message of self-improvement? Is that your perfect just the way you are? But you should be the best version of yourself. I do find that to be contradictory. How do you how do you rationalize that? For me, I kind of think of it as on almost this spiritual level that from these are my own personal beliefs that kind of we're all just vibrations, we're all energy and that's a neutral thing. There's no bad person because of how they are as a vibration or energy. We're all just kind of this consciousness here on Earth or in the universe. So that to me is neutral and that to me is perfect because it's not good or bad, it just is. But then on the other side we're having this human experience and we're living here on Earth. So why not make the most of it? Why not try and maximize that full potential? So I guess I see it in kind of like this spiritual realm of perfection, but then also this human realm of let's do the best that we can in our lives. I feel that way a lot too and how it manifests for me is the letting go and just accepting for who you are right now and you might make mistakes but as long as you try as hard as you can at a given thing, say a podcast or film or whatever you're trying to make, you might fail, you might not execute the way that you wanted to but you can always learn from that and move forward and grow. Right. Where does your story start in terms of, so we know where you are now? I want to, I'm curious about how you got here. Yeah, and you asked a minute ago about kind of my past in terms of how I've I've grown or what I've grown through. So I think they're both intertwined. So just to give you a little brief synopsis, I grew up with my parents. They got divorced when I was one and kind of my struggles that I've worked through and that have kind of defined how I run my business now are that I grew up just not really feeling connected to very many people. I didn't feel connected to my family. I didn't really fit in in elementary school. So for me, I grew up feeling like I'm not loved. I'm not where the and all of these different stories that we kind of repeat to ourselves. So those are things that I've spent a lot of time with different coaches and therapists and what not to heal about myself. And they've also led me into the type of business that I have now, which is very community-based and very, I think, based in empathy for other people. So having that experience has made me really focused on wanting other people to feel seen and loved and worthy. And even though I'm teaching a lot of business tactics and strategies, I do it in a way where it feels like people are part of something and where they can have that kind of community to fall back on people to really reach out to and connect with versus feeling like they're struggling in a vacuum. Are they building something in silence, especially if their family or friends aren't really on board with what they're trying to do. So after I graduated college, moved to Japan to teach English for two and a half years. And towards the end of that, I was feeling this kind of disconnected, unseen feeling where I was living. It was kind of this feeling of I'm getting really got as speaking Japanese. I'm integrating into the culture, but now I'm realizing that as a white person, I'll never fully be part of the community and somebody who comes from a different country. I'll never fully be part of the community. And it almost brought back these triggers of my childhood where I thought, like, I'm still not part of it. It's hard, hard as I try to be part of this community at school or with my family. I'm not part of it. So that actually led me to start my blog. I started it in 2013. And it was meant to be a place to just bring people together to create a community about creativity and personal development and just find my people online. And I did, and it ended up, and it was just for fun. I know we talked about this earlier about how kind of when you start something without the expectation, then it needs to become something, or it doesn't need to make money. It's just kind of for fun and for your own development. And that's where I started it too. So when it came from that place, it just became this really fun hobby and obsession. I got really into blogging and meeting people online and bringing people together. That kind of snowballed into a graphic and web design business that I had online for a couple of years, which eventually snowballed into what I do now, which is teaching courses and have a podcast and all that kind of stuff for entrepreneurs. I want to specifically talk about the trip to Japan, because that's pretty radical for somebody in college to want to go to Japan. Where where do you grow up? I grew up in Southern California. Okay, so then to go to Japan is, you know, opposite side of the world, it's the culture is radically different. There's a lot of places you could have gone in Europe that would have felt more like home. Why was it Japan? What drew you there? Yeah, I think honestly, I think one of the biggest things was that the university, university that I went to, was 50% Asian and I got really immersed in Asian culture. A lot of my friends, even now, to the day are Asian and from all different nationalities, but I started learning more about it and the food and the culture and it was really interesting to me. So that was a little part of it of wanting to go somewhere in Asia. But then in terms of going to Japan, I applied for programs in other Asian countries too, and it wasn't really this planned decision. It was more, I want to go somewhere completely different, and there was a good teaching program at the time, called Jet that I did, and I was like, I'm just going to do that. And I don't really know anything about Japan. I don't know anything about the language, but I just want to go and have this different experience growing up in more of like the Southern California, almost sheltered, not too sheltered, but sheltered in the sense that you live in the same place your whole life experience. So that was really the only reason I went there. Did you feel that risk of a phoma that you weren't getting right into your career and you weren't just going to start making money right away and you were going to be going and teaching abroad? I didn't actually, I think I have that feeling more now in terms of things, but I think at the time it was almost phoma if I didn't do something like that, because I'd seen friends study abroad. I'd seen people travel to all these different countries, and I didn't really ever have that experience. I traveled a little bit when I was in high school college, but nothing to that extreme of living abroad for a few years. And I think for me it was just if I didn't do it, I would have had phoma, and I thought I wanted to be a teacher and in many ways now I still am, but I thought this will be the start of my teaching career, and I'll do this, and then I'll become a teacher when I come back to the last point. What better experience than to teach abroad? What was the first blog post that you did? What inspired the creation of the blog? Yeah, so I'm trying to think what the actual first blog post was, I think it was, so when I lived in Japan, I, like I mentioned, I really wanted to foster this community aspect, and I also just loved different creative pursuits, and wanted to do something that brought people together around creativity. So I found this Japanese guy who spoke a little English, and he had some connections in the little city that I was living in, and he and I planned this kind of mini arts festival in our town where there were musicians that performed, and then people who were artists were able to kind of, we had a little almost museum where you can walk around and look at film photography and paintings, and all that kind of stuff, and there were different areas where you could create your own art, we had different random things that you could use to create something, and so the blog post that I wrote was just about that experience. It was called Wago Wago, and me and my early Japan years, I had no idea how to speak Japanese, and I literally just looked up the characters for Unity, and like Unity among people, I was like this sounds perfect for this little arts festival, and the word was Wago, and I was like, I'm actually going to call it Wago Wago Wago to be extra unified, and then so the post on the blog was really just about that, which seems kind of random now, but almost was the catalyst for everything that I love talking about, which is very much this community, and bringing people together around creativity and personal growth. How did the writing influence you much? I found at least in myself that getting my thoughts down, and actually, I'm curious if you journal before this, but for me, journaling has been a sporadic venture, like everyone's in a while, I'll get into it, and I'll fall out of it, but I do know that when I'm putting my thoughts down on paper, if I have a goal, somewhere that I want to go in life, a direction I want to head, did it for my documentary, wrote down every, hope, dream, aspiration I had for that, what I wanted my future to look like, what I wanted my life to look like, the habits I wanted to change, and then from there, I was able to take action on it, it became real. Now that it was on paper, I had to commit myself to changing. Right, right. I definitely feel that way too, and I've always loved writing also, so I think it came naturally and it was really fun. A lot of it was almost similar. It was like an observation I'd make about something somebody would say or do, and then I'd write about it because I think that's really interesting the way they said or did that thing, or here's what I think about this, and kind of the lesson that I got out of that experience. So, it almost was a journal in that sense that other people could read initially, but now, like you mentioned, I love journaling, it's something I tried to do on a daily basis, at least writing gratitude or acknowledgements of things that I did well during that day, that I think that's kind of like a self-love practice of just not skipping over the things that you excelled at. So, I try to do that every day, I think that's important too. And then you transition from this blog to a service-based industry. Is that right into designing into creating websites for people? Right, so that was another thing that I've always just loved. I think I got a pirated copy of Photoshop when I was in sixth grade, and I've just been interested in designs since then. So, I've made little things like shirts and whatever throughout the years, and when I was doing this blog, I was in a job as an English teacher that wasn't really fulfilling me. I didn't really enjoy where I was working anymore, and didn't feel like it was using my full potential. So, as I was doing this blog, which started as just this fun hobby, I noticed that all these other bloggers were making a full-time income doing this online. I was like, how are they doing that? That's really cool. And I don't know. Yeah, exactly. So, I started researching it more, and I was like, what do I have that I could sell people? And I thought maybe, because there's other bloggers who are selling their own design services, and they thought, I could probably do this, because I've been practicing it at the hobby throughout my life, and I just decided to start a little web design studio. And I think because I started the blog, has just this way to build community to bring people together. The web design studio started doing really well very quickly, because I had this little audience of people who became my clients, and would refer people to me. So, the blog was like this, the most important thing, I think, in terms of my business, and I still think it is for the business that I have now, just bringing people together, getting them on board with what you do, and then using that to make money somehow. Is there a certain amount of people, a size of a community, you think, that's important, that you need to have in order to be able to say create a sustainable business? Is there a number that you could put on it? I know that I've heard like the 1,000 true fans, is there something like that that we could? Yeah, sometimes I say that 1,000 in terms of if you're going an email list, but at the same time, I think it really just depends on your business, because if you're a web designer selling a $5,000 website, you only probably need one client to make a full-time income from that every month. So, if you only need one client, then maybe if you get like 10 people to do your website, one of them will end up being a client if you're marketing, you're messaging, and your website are all on point. So, it depends on a number of factors, and I've said for a long time like get a thousand or 500 people in your email list, and that will be great. But the more I think about it, the more that feels too subjective, because it is that it could be a higher price and you'll need one person, or because maybe you get 10,000 people, but your website is really confusing, and people don't really understand what you're selling, and you're marketing these work, then even 10,000 might not be enough. You know, so I think it's kind of dialing in all of these other factors of creating a community, really focusing on not just the money, but bringing people together in a significant way, and then also how are you marketing, your stuff, and how are you making the value of it really clear, because people don't care what they're buying, they care what the difference it's going to make in their life will have on them. So figuring out what that is, and then making sure it's really clear to those people. When you started doing the service based stuff, did you have a price set in mind for like I'm going to be really high-end, because when I started out it was, I was in college making videos, and I would make $100 for a video of $300 for a video, which would require countless hours, 30, 40 hours, a lot of times I was just making 10 bucks an hour on a video, slowly over time, kept pushing and building up my business more and more. Did you have an idea in mind of what you were going to start at, or did you have to start from the ground like me? Yeah, I definitely was not high-end, I was like crap-end, I get very low-end, I was the same way where I thought I will see what everyone else is charging, who has a similar skill level, and then I'll do like half that for my prices, and I'll make it really cheap. Right, yeah, and I'm gonna cut everybody else. Yeah, yeah, and it was also from this belief, I think, of maybe I'm not worthy of charging that much money, and maybe people won't want to hire me, or they won't be happy with what I give them, and I think it kind of goes back to that idea of just when you get over the doubt, it's related to just doing something. So I did it, I charged really low prices, I think I charged like a whole website for maybe $200, which I would take some really long time, but- Yeah, well, so yeah, okay, so that's like that, so in terms of designing entire website, you're just talking like, did you do the logo and stuff too, or is this just building up, I mean not just, but building at the website, the homepage about everything. I think that was just, that was one of my first projects, that was like the homepage, all these different pages on their website, a shop page, but I quickly learned that this is not worth my time, and I should probably charge more because I know the value that I'm bringing to people too, and I could start to see that like when I would give them a new design, it would make a difference for their business and their blog. So I started- That must have been pretty cool though, right? Not in the last to get $200 dollars, you're like, oh sweet, money. Yeah, I remember the first time I made $10, I think I sold like an ad space on my website, and I was like, what? Yeah, I just made $10, and it wasn't for my job, maybe I can make 10 more, and yeah, I was so exciting. Yeah, I made $100, I just followed around a clothing company for an entire day, like, eight to 10 hours. No idea what it was going to be, why would I even film them? And then he went to the ATM at a restaurant at the end of the day, pulled out $100, and gave it to me, and I was like, holy shit. This is my first time legitimately making money as an entrepreneur, doesn't matter how much that first project, first project is, I think it does unlock something in you to say, this is possible. I can actually build upon this. Right, right, it almost seems easy. You're like, well, now I just need to get more people like that person, and maybe now I'll actually charge on something because now I'm a real filmmaker. Yeah, it gives you that confidence that you need, and that how much of it comes from confidence in terms of growing a business. Can you run solely on confidence or I guess what balance of actual skill versus confidence? I mean, I think skill is important, but skill you can learn. I think confidence is something that is either inherent, but more often is something that takes a lot of practice to get to, and I think to get to that point, you just start doing the stuff that you're not confident in, or you're scared to do, and it builds that confidence. But I also think it takes a level of commitment and consistency and personal integrity. So we hear a lot about integrity to other people and being honest, but I think what a lot of entrepreneurs struggle with is are the commitments that they make to themselves, and the commitment they have for their business. So maybe you know what you should be doing, but having that commitment to, okay, I'm going to publish a blog post weekly, or I'm going to create this online course by XYZ date, and keeping those promises to yourself, because the more we learn to not trust ourselves, the more we fall into those patterns, and don't actually create the business that we want to. Why do we quit in your experience before we follow through with a project? I think a lot of it is fear-based. I think a lot of people, because it's not something that we really learn how to do in school. We learn a lot of other stuff that most of it, we don't really use, these are just kind of how to think about things, but not what we need to be thinking about in school. So I think we just don't know how to do it, and we think, well, maybe the people who did it are just special, or they had luck, or something, and so we try, and don't get results quickly, and think, well, I'm just not going to cut out for this. And I think that is really faulty, because how many things in our lives do we try and get it right on the first time, and how many things are we good at, that we try one day, and then all of a sudden are experts at. So I think for anyone who's feeling that way, if they're thinking like, well, I tried this for a couple of months, and it's not really working out, and maybe I just knock it off with this. I'm not like the people who can do it. I think it's just a matter of what you need to learn about your business, or whatever it is that you're trying to create in order to create that thing, and then also who do you need to become in order to make that happen? Do you need to mend something in your life that's constantly holding you back? Maybe you have this doubt that comes from your past, because one of your parents always told you that you're never going to amount to anything, or something like that. So what do you need to mend, and how are you going to create that business? What do you need to learn in order to do that? Is motivation overrated in this sense, because I think a lot of personal development tends to lens itself to like, you can do it, just really hostile encouragement, which I think has its place, and like I listened to a Tony Robbins audio tape, and I feel like I'm going to take over the world, that motivation tends to, you know, just like our thoughts, it fades, and then we end up going back into our daily routine, and forgetting everything that Tony told us. At what point does motivation help us and encourage us, and which ways do you use motivation in your life? Yeah, I think you're exactly right in saying that motivation eventually fades, because I think that's the experience for everyone, and that's also part of I think where people get hung up on, I don't feel motivated today, and I didn't feel motivated yesterday, so maybe I'm just not cut out for working for myself. And I have definitely, I mean, I feel and motivated some days even now, and I don't think that it's a thing where you just are able to put yourself in the motivated state of mind. I think it's something where it's kind of going back to that commitment, and that personal integrity to yourself, where you might not feel motivated every day, and that's actually completely normal. Most people don't, and if you do, then tell me what supplements you're taking with you, so I would love to know. But for most people, you have to just literally know what your priorities are for the day, and then just start doing that. I found that the first few minutes of doing a task I'm dreading is the worst, and then I get into it, and I'm like, okay, this is not that bad, and it's actually taking way less time than I thought it would. Man, I feel like that happens for everything I do, like every project, if I'm going to sit down ahead of the podcast, I don't want to do it, and I should, and if that's the classic procrastination, and then we end up doing something, we clean the house, from a totally unrelated to what we're supposed to be doing. But you ever hear Steven Presfield, the resistance, he's got a great book, just about, it's actually, I don't think it's called, I think it's called Do The Work, I don't think it's called the Resistance, but he kind of labels this feeling as the resistance. It holds us back from sitting down and doing the work, but once we sit down, that's the hardest part. Once you actually five ten minutes into a project, all that stuff fades away, and then you actually find the things that you enjoy about that project. Right. It's so interesting. I wonder what the psychology is behind that, or if there is any research about it? Right, like if you think about like evolutionary biology, and it's like, why would we procrastinate? Like you would procrastinate 10,000, 15,000 years ago when you're, you need to go out and find food and hunt and gather. Yeah. Why do we procrastinate now? I don't know. There's maybe there's nothing there. Maybe there's it. I mean, yeah, why humans. Maybe it's something to do with just change. I think sometimes our survival feels dependent on things staying the same and not changing, and maybe it's kind of like when we get up to edit our podcast or to work on whatever it is. We are kind of changing the state that we're in. We're like pushing something almost, and maybe part of us is like, oh, I don't want to do that. Yeah, that's a great point. And I just kind of was thinking also, like, some of this stuff doesn't apply to modern people, because I don't think 15,000 years ago people were like, the end of the thoughts were on computers, editing together podcasts, so maybe in that sense. Maybe they're a little like bird calls or something. Maybe that's it. Yeah, making music. Yeah. But I, all right, yeah, I find that to be, to be really fascinating, just the motivation, because I don't think it comes down to motivation. I think it helps, but I don't think it's everything. Right. I think you do have to really enjoy the work you're doing. At what point, say we're still talking about the design business, to do you enjoy doing that? Was that fulfilling I did for about a year, a year and a half, and then it became massively unfulfilling for me. It started to feel almost like I was getting back into a corporate job, or I guess I never really worked in a corporate job, but having a boss told me what to do, because I had all these clients who were essentially doing the same thing. And I felt like I was kind of designing the same things for everybody. Everybody wanted the same looking website, what was on trend, and it didn't feel like that fun creative thing that it once was. And I started to also feel like trapped, because I wasn't teaching. And I think that was something that I really missed just about what I love doing. So it did get to a point where it wasn't fun for me anymore. It wasn't my true purpose, or my passion. Yeah. And I think fun is a little bit more difficult to describe in this sense, because like when I'm doing the work that that fulfills me and that I really enjoy doing, it's not like I'm smiling the whole time, like a maniac, like it's not fun. Like sometimes there's a lot of joy, and there is fun parts to it. But I think fulfilling is probably the most important way to see it. So you needed to find something that would then fulfill you. Yeah. And what was that? So I started teaching online courses. As I was growing my web design business, I was getting questions from people on my blog that kind of talk about it there, what I was doing to grow the web design business. And I'd get questions from people all the time about how are you growing this blog audience? Where are you getting traffic from? How are you getting people on your email list so quickly? And then how are you growing this web design business? Like where are you getting on these clients from? You kind of came out of nowhere and now you have this thriving business. And I took that as a sense of maybe I should start talking about this stuff for other people. If it seems like so many people are interested in this. So came out with some of my first online courses and that became what I do now. And for me I feel like things shift a lot and I really just try to go with the flow as much as I can. So it started as a blog, became a web design studio when I felt like that was the right thing. And I had some other things in between two. I did some coaching and I had a little greeting card shop. I kind of just think it's important to follow what feels right to you at the same time as trying to make good career decisions. But it's important I think to just kind of follow that gut feeling of. This seems like the right thing for me to be doing or trying, even if it doesn't work out. And so I got to that point with my web design business to where I thought this is just not working anymore. I'm going to try something else. And even now with my course business kind of shifting more to talking about personal development versus marketing strategies. So I think it's really just about that being and flowing and being okay with that and not trying to like grasp onto anything too hard because it might change in the future and that's kind of normal. There reminds me what we were talking about before we started the podcast you were saying that you grew this business that was thriving and was doing really well and you were making an income off of it, a sustaining income. And but in a lot of ways it felt like the rap race that someone might have in a corporate nine to five world where you're not exactly focused on the priorities of it and why am I doing this? Why is this fulfilling? What is the end goal here? Am I just going for likes or for clicks or for downloads? So what was that realization for you? How did you come about that maybe you were kind of running off course a little bit? Right. So 2015 I for about half the year I did my web design studio then I transitioned to courses and they started doing really well and I was like well I could do this full time this will be my new thing. 2016 things just completely shot up we did over a million dollars in revenue with courses and I started the year thinking I want to help people and I want to teach people and I want to help them grow their own businesses because this has been so fun and fulfilling for me and then it turned into this thing of well how that I'm at this level I need to go for the next level and now that I hit this school I need to shoot for the next school and it always became this thing where it was like what's next what's next what's next and never taking time to think is this actually fulfilling me and I really helping people and I still remembering all the reasons why I started this whole business in blog in the first place or am I forgetting what my real purpose is and it kind of happened when I was at a conference last year I actually just went to the same conference again a couple weeks ago is that this conference is spoken word artists and Q I think he lives in LA he was performing and he talks a lot about kind of this type of stuff it talks a lot about politics and about how we get caught up in the rat race and how we need to remember kind of our connection and that that's not just what life's all about money and status and all of that kind of stuff and I remember just sitting in this auditorium and everyone else was like hey so good oh my gosh that's guys great and I was like trying to hide the fact that I was bawling because it hit me and I was like oh my God I am that person and I'm the person that I never thought I would become and never wanted to be that I was so focused on the growth and the comparison being the best and and all those types of things and so remember at that conference during lunch my friends were like do you want to go get something to eat because that's what we would do each break during the conference and it was like no I'm gonna take this by myself and I walked to a CVS bottle little yellow notebook and a pen bottle of water and I walked to a park and started a table by myself and just rode out everything that I'd been feeling over the past year about how I wasn't being honest with my identity and how I was getting wrapped up and something that didn't feel like me and and started to make plans for how I could change that about myself and about my business and what I focus on and since then that was about a year ago since then we've made a lot of shifts we've started focusing more and giving back and doing charitable things and also just focusing less on the numbers and more on the people and how are we helping people and how are we creating community in a deep intimate way and the money comes like it's still it's still comes and and that's not even a factor anymore it's kind of like when you start focusing on the things that actually matter at least this is my experience then the things that you want or the things that you need will come anyways and you'll be happy because you're focusing on your true purpose and true mission and and your business will still be growing so that's been my experience with just kind of coming back to this is what I actually need in my life this is what's actually fulfilling for me first is getting wrapped up in that like you said the rat race yeah that that story sounds remarkably familiar to a lot of people that we interviewed with for our documentary minimalism most people had done it through the corporate nine to five world and they broke away from it then started like a blog or started their own business and then they were able to grow from there with the meaning kind of packed in but if you're not starting from that place of of building out say your life which is a lot of times our work is our life and to have a work life balances it's not always necessary if everything that you're doing in your work life contributes to your personal life and back and forth so that story I feel like it just it just reminds me that even with what I'm doing now even for everybody I know and appreciate online you always have to remind yourself the reason why you're doing it and money there is a limit to where that goes and millions of dollars you could be making every year that's not going to fulfill you and make you happy just because all you're going to be looking at is what's the next number on top 10 million okay then it's 20 million and I guess from even because my my life is also deeply riddled it from the beginning of money problems being a hundred thousand dollars in student loan debt so for me it was always about like I just want to get out of debt and I want to get this freedom and then I get some money saved up and now I feel comfortable but then you always have this new threshold even like when you're saving up money where you're like if I've five thousand dollars in the bank oh my god like I feel so comfortable and then 10 or 15 thousand but then you just kind of keep stretching that and you're your mindset tends to shift in terms of what you're okay with and that's the same thing with a salary how do you approach money and finance and how do you view it now in terms of how you apply it to both your personal and your professional life yeah such an interesting question and topic I was kind of similar and that I I had money problems too it wasn't in my adult life but growing up with my mom after my parents got divorced she didn't have very much money so we'd kind of live in motels or studio apartments and have a car for a long time and so that was often part of my story and so for me how that showed up in my business was that I for at first didn't want to spend any money I was like I don't want to invest anything because I need to hoard this money and then after that became this thing where it was like now I need to get rid of this money because I feel really weird having money because I never had that before so there's almost a say caught in me of how do I figure that out for myself how do I feel okay about this when other people don't have money and all that kind of stuff and figuring that part of my identity out obviously that the closely interlinked but how do you approach your own personal finances right I like what you said about how kind of the threshold keeps building it's like you thought 5000 was great and then it's 10,000 and 15,000 and I think and that's kind of been how it's been for me too it's like the new normal and you try and shoot for maintain certain levels of of income I guess or savings or being able to pay off debt and things like that but I think for that I think just in general it's important to check back in with yourself and in journal or meditate and figure out okay well that was my goal last month and now that I've hit it what's next and is this something that I'm shooting for because I think it'll impress other people or that it'll give me higher status or whatever or is it something I actually need and want that will fulfill me so I think with money too it's important to always check back in with yourself and make sure that you're shooting for something that is bringing you the lifestyle you want but not like killing you for it because I think a lot of people will be like I want to make six figures or I want to make XYZ amount of money but then when they go back to their life they don't even need that much money to have a great comfortable life and to buy the things that they want and need and yet they're killing themselves working tons of hours every week to make that much money for things they don't even want or need or that will fulfill them so I think that's important to just kind of checking back in with so I want need this is it fulfilling me or am I just struggling for nothing yeah every good book on personal finance that I've read from remeete satis I will teach you to be rich Dave Ramsey's total money makeover Tony Robbins has a couple books down on personal finance and the the biggest thing is first identifying what you want your life's look like how much money you're going to need when you retire and these questions are sometimes boring for people especially young people people in college that are that are just getting their life going and just starting to make a salary it's kind of boring to think about all right how much money am I going to need when I retire let me sit down and actually do the math but I think when you do that I think people might be torn as to how much they realize they will need once they retire because a lot of people just don't think about it and you're probably going to need like a million dollars two million dollars when you're 65 years old if you plan on retiring at 65 like you need to have a 401k and have money that's you can't depend on the government to take care of you once you retire you need to really take responsibility for yourself and for me like two million dollars it sounds like a lot of money but if you're putting away 5,000 dollars every year you will reach that goal by the time you're 65 right I think I was listening to a podcast this morning that said something like 70% of Americans have nothing saved for retirement it's really depressing scary I was just talking to my dad yesterday about like saving for retirement I haven't started that yet but will you know before the end of the year I know yeah I know it's definitely something that's on my mind and it's crazy just thinking of all those people who haven't saved at all yeah it's well because that's the I think the the first thing to do is obviously in terms of personal finance is to have a little bit of a security net in case something because everything anything that will go wrong can go wrong will go wrong your car needs to give a paradigm of flat tire your insurance premiums go up like these are things that you need to be ready for and for me I feel like I don't think that that goes against this principle of money is not important I think money is important and I don't think we're saying money is not important but as in like it's not everything yeah like how much money you make your net worth isn't your worth of who you are as a human yeah um though you can still be conservative in terms and careful and make calculated decisions about the decisions you make based upon the money that you currently have and and how secure and safe you feel because you know there's always gonna be new normal there's always gonna be a threshold that you can kind of get by without right I kind of think of it is just like another relationship in your life where like you said it's it's important but it's not everything it's like your partner should be important to you but if they're everything in your life then that's kind of a um a bad cycle to be in right because if you lose that thing then it's just your whole life crumbles and I think it's the same way with money like it should be important but if you're entire self worth which mine was last year is dependent on how much money you make then it's an unhealthy relationship and finding ways to make you more healthy it seems counter intuitive for somebody to run a business and not think about money um do you think about money at all in terms of your business and your growth like you said you don't look at the numbers but you probably do a little bit but it's not what drives you what's that balance there yeah I definitely like I care about money I do look at numbers I meet with my bookkeeper every month to go over our profit and last statement and and all that kind of stuff we have goals when we launched products and things like that um revenue goals but but I think it kind of goes back to that relationship idea it's like you could be dating someone and they're important to you you love them care about them you love spending time with them but if they're everything in your world then something's off it's not healthy right so I think it's the same thing with money make it important and really cherish it and and find ways to grow it and maintain it but don't put all of yourself worth into it so I think for me it's just kind of removing some of that attachment that I had to it and largely my own attachment of like I mentioned myself worth to my my bank account and um removing that but still caring about are we growing the business and how much are we making and all that kind of stuff so it's been a balance right yeah I think it's always a balance and and you have to like you said where you maybe your business was going down the wrong path a little bit but then you just read just course and it's never too late to read just yeah when you went into that CVS got that notebook started jotting down these notes in this inspiration for the direction you wanted your business to head um how did that look like over the course of that next year and how did I guess what were some of the effects of that decision hmm so one of the biggest things was we started focusing more on giving and giving money that we were making the business to organizations that we cared about so a couple of months after that event we hosted a fundraiser and hosted it for an organization called Pences of Promise that build schools does teacher and sanitation trainings in under privileged countries under developed countries so we raised about $120,000 then and for me it almost triggered this like sense of abundance like oh my gosh we can raise a lot of money I was giving away my courses and exchange for donation so I was losing some money in that sense too but we can raise money for these organizations and do good and it doesn't hurt me at all like I'm not I don't feel like I'm losing out which I think I almost had that sense before it was like I needed to hoard everything otherwise I was going to be losing something so changing that mindset to just abundance and giving and doing more fundraisers and all that kind of stuff and then also focusing more on community versus money so we in I think in 2016 we launched products where we kind of opened them for enrollment and you make a bunch of money during a couple of weeks and then you close it for enrollment and then that's kind of closed I think we did that like six times in 2016 and in 2017 we've only done that twice and for me and we're making double what we did last year so for me it's more of going back and refining what we did versus just always focusing on okay we need this big spike of money and we need to to make more and and that kind of thing to focusing more on just letting it be easy and taking care of myself and being able to travel and and see people without hustling for 80 hours a week to try and launch all these things and make more and more money so it's like I said earlier where it was it's like when you focus on the things that you actually care about and the things that feel purposeful to you then the money just ends up coming and obviously there's some tactics and stuff to that how we're able to grow it without launching products as much but I think kind of focusing on the ease of things rather than the the grind and the hustle all the time it really makes a difference too. I feel like there's always room for that optimization you could fill your website with banner ads every which way and yeah your revenue might increase but there's definitely a downside to to that as well where you perhaps lose some integrity you lose some respect from your audience your audience might like it frustrated you don't want them to go to your website and get frustrated in the same way that maybe doing something like that where you're kind of rushing to get these spikes while it taps into what might be a consumer like drive to buy something. See there's like the tactics and I'm curious about the tactics that you use because I think tactics are important and we're all human and we all the people who are creating a message like I want people to listen to this podcast I think somebody can get something out of it. I don't want to do anything that I would think is unethical or immoral to get that but obviously there are other things that aren't immoral in an ethical that you can do to help get your message out there so what are the ways in which you can do that? Yeah so I think in terms of optimization I work a lot with email marketing where I'll create blog posts and then I'll create email funnels or somebody will opt in for something and like a free worksheet or something like that though opt in for my email list and then I'll put them through different series of emails that they get that provide value teach them something but then eventually pitch one of my courses or products to them so that's about half of our revenue so for me a lot of the optimization comes from how do we get more people on the email list how do we track more of the right people into our community and then how can we optimize the emails that we're sending or the sales pages that they're looking at or we do webinars too I don't know if you're familiar with those but basically teaching an online class and then pitching something at the end so how can we optimize those things so I think that's a big part of what we've been working on and then another piece to it too goes back to this idea of community how am I showing up in a way where people can actually connect with me as a human versus a business that sells courses and how am I opening myself up how am I being vulnerable or how am I doing more video stuff versus just writing blog posts so that people really get more of a sense of who I am and I think that all goes into it too is just how can people connect to you and then what's your marketing and optimization funnel looking like so those have been two of my biggest focuses this year okay great so let's help the ground up show and let's help my personal business and maybe we'll come up with like a strategy for me to be able I guess what I get we to figure out the goal first sure so it would be what do I want to do it's tough because like I guess like right now my main driver isn't to make money but I guess to have a sustainable business would be good in terms of what I give you a little bit of background like I've been doing the client work for a very long time and I'm slowing down on the client work I would love to be able to do the podcast full-time create original projects full-time some of them would be in the realm of like a Netflix release release which wouldn't kind of have that world of say my personal content that I create for an audience but I'm starting to build an audience which should my goal be out what should I what should my goal be should it be to make money to make my first like viable product or a course or maybe I make a film maybe I make like a 20-minute film that I want to sell what excites you of the songs what excites me that's a really good question I just did I just did a film called unstuck which was a free film so this is me starting to create original content I made a film called unstuck which was my experience making minimalism my experience growing up with a hundred thousand dollars or not growing up but graduating college in 2010 with ninety seven thousand dollars in debt and the figure out how to get out of debt building a business and doing all this stuff and then also going out and filming and finding work that was meaningful to me so the whole thing was like the five steps to change how do you change your circumstances and we had this unique privilege of interviewing people like Luba Bouta of Zenhabit, Joshua Becker of becoming minimalist and all these really brilliant people to determine and see how they may change is because they all were in a place of where they felt like they were stuck so I made this 20-minute film and that's how so I actually built up I've got two thousand newsletter subscribers mostly from that film because that's like the main thing on my website people go there they watch it and that or they watch the trailer for it and then they could sign up from newsletter when did you release it I released it well roughly I kind of said I started out and I said hey here's the trailer gonna be releasing it next month and then it took me like three months to make it I just got to put it out there unusual yeah exactly I was like I just need to make this thing I need to get it out there and then this move to L.I. happened and then obviously I've a ton of other excuses that are totally valid but then I just recently released it about a couple weeks ago and I released it as into my newsletter subscribers got it so I have this thing that's like kind of my main funnel for getting people to sign up for my email and how did you get those subscribers before releasing this I was a trailer and I said it was a trailer about unstuck and what was gonna be the what was gonna be in the film sign up for my newsletter and you'll be the first to hear about it okay and so then I had people sign up over the course of that the following two to three months and then I just sent it back to them yeah and that was yeah starting from zero so I had like zero subscribers at that point and then I built it up I think I'd like to do something like that again I like to create a 20 minute film whether it you know along the same topic same themes purpose living a meaningful life maybe like the part my personal stories as well going deeper into that so let's say I want to make a 20 minute film and then I want to be able to monetize it because unstuck was not I didn't make any money from it I just I just got subscribers yeah I would we go about doing that what avenues do you see for monetizing something like that as in what how to dish out would you yeah how would would you make money from something like that a paper view I guess or not paper view but paper watch so you have like a video wall where somebody would pay five bucks or ten bucks to watch so the only thing I would say about that is that if you're charging five ten dollars which makes sense for downloading a movie right you would need a lot of customers every month to make a full-time income if you're making five grand a month there would be I think what 500 people per month if you charge ten dollars so what I would do is create something similar it sounds like actually the video you made I'm sure it's really high quality and it sounds like it goes through different steps of how to get out of debt how do you start your own business and I feel like you could package that same thing up and put the same cinematic qualities into it but create some sort of course really you could then charge more like five hundred or a thousand dollars for the same knowledge maybe obviously a little bit longer but the same knowledge that you would be putting in there isn't hilarious I I have actually had the same thought before and it's something I've talked to Josh and Ryan from the minimalist about is kind of creating a course I mean yeah that's like that's that's a good point my yeah tell me tell me yeah like this is what you're talking about with like the doubt and stuff but it's not even the doubt it's like I do have to get clear with my goals but I'm just thinking in my head I could create the course personal Matt de-evella course build up my own brand or I could continue to partner with people like my friends Josh and Ryan and I could make a course with them and they have audience of millions and the course would be way more successful and it'd be quicker to get off the ground so I'm like and that's something we've talked about we're probably gonna do maybe it's a separate project yeah um well no one's saying you can't do both yeah you could do both you could you could ask why not both yeah I think but I think for actually these purposes I do want to start up my I want to build my own brand and be self reliant right I think that's huge for my own audience so I think that's that's a great point that's something I thought of and I it's just like kind of refreshing and knocking sense into me that way I think you should do it for whatever reason like short films like you just can't make a lot of money doing it people value a course more but I think you also it makes you step up your game a bit that you're not just necessarily creating something that's emotionally fulfilling but something that's also gonna motivate people to take action and to to kind of lay out a process right teach them something right so say if I was gonna do a course hundred dollars and I'm sure you could do different levels right yeah you get certain things included with it you would probably suggest not to include coaching with something like that or would if you did then I would make it a much higher price point where maybe it's only 10 people who pay $1,000 or $2,000 and they get a couple coaching calls because I think it's also what I see some people do when I also did during one of my launches was offer coaching because you think well I can make a lot more money if I do that but then you get all these people who buy it and you're like God I wish I didn't do that because now I have to do all these coaching sessions so I think just what do you want in your life yeah it's not that scalable right if you you know like you said maybe you can do 10 it could be like an elite training session but that's good point because I have had some people asking me for the coaching stuff and I've just been putting it off because I'm like hmm I love I love doing helping people but at the same time I'm like I don't know if that's something that I want to do for my business right now right takes a lot of time and I think too if you create a course then you can create some kind of email sales funnel like we were talking about and have that just run all the time and adding an element of coaching kind of makes it a little bit more difficult because then it will rely on your timeline throughout the year if people are buying it it's just random times whenever they want to so making it super at her green where just they can buy it any time they want watch it and you don't need to be part of that process at all I think is awesome okay so I make the unstuck course and it's gonna be the 10 steps to change now it's the five steps to change but I'm gonna package it into a course how do I what do I do now yeah I've made it right I've made the course it's great it's gonna really change people's lives what do I do now yeah well I think the fact that you created that 20 minute video on a similar topic already and you're using that as a way to get people on your email list is fantastic because you know that those 2000 people on your list right now which is amazingly neat to that in two to three months it's awesome you know that those people are gonna be interested in this topic and if they watched the 20 minute video and now you follow up with them in an email and say hey by the way if you liked unstuck well I'm coming up with unstuck the course to dive deeper into how to actually implement this stuff for your life and how to really get results from everything that you learned in the movie and because you've done that you'll be marketing to people that actually care about this stuff so what I would do you can even do this now like once you've started I mean honestly you could even do this before you create the course itself and really have that kind of fire under you to to get it done but you could create some sort of marketing sequence I would do for 7 to 14 days and create some emails that go out to your email list and really walk them through what's the what are the benefits that they would get in this course what's the transformation that they can see why did you create it what kind of place did you come from you mentioned that you were in debt and now you worked through that and talking about the emotional aspect of that and what it was like and now what it feels like to not have that burden hanging over you and then talking about different things like myths what kind of myths are they believing or misconceptions are they believing about their own debt or their own ability to make money and really just walking through all of these different emotions that they might be feeling in terms of this topic through various emails that you send out and that will get people into the right mindset that this course is actually going to work for them and that they are capable of getting results from this course and then you can start talking about well here's how you buy the course and here's why you should buy it what kind of impact and change it's going to have in your life and one other thing that I recommend to people when they're launching a new course any course actually it's to do a webinar where you're teaching an online class telling people a little bit about your story giving them some free value during 20 to 30 minutes of teaching and then pitching your course at the end is kind of the next step like if you liked this content then here's the next step if you really want to get involved with this it's a great way to just build that trust with people and then to make sales after that so I would do all of that for a couple of weeks and and that will be your course launch keep it simple just emails and a webinar and you can do this before you've created the content and just have some kind of sales page up it doesn't even need to be super extensive where you tall them here's what you get in the course here's how you buy it and and then when you release it in a month or two after that then you've already got this kind of validation that people are interested in it and you've got people paying for it before it's even created right so you don't even have to actually make it and then I could so then have three people buy it yeah I could be a guard guys that course is gonna happen right yeah you do that I mean you could I like theoretically like say if it's just not a huge response I mean that that's a really good way to engage your level of commitment to the project so say that seven to fourteen day one to two week launch process before leading up to the sell how many email I don't send emails to my I'm like really bad I'm screwing up totally but yeah I think I said one email a month and it's not you know just because I I don't know I just don't know the frequency to do it I don't want to over do it so I tend to kind of scale back on it and only send something when I have really something cool to share right so I guess that that would be just one thing just emailing in general how often should that contact be sure varies but then also with that one to two week launch how what's the frequency up of that sure right so I would start by emailing weekly and I think a lot of the times when people email monthly are just not at all it's because they don't really know what to say or like you said they want it to be really good so then they save it all for maybe the end of the month I would do weekly and brainstorm like what are some of the things that your audience people who opted in for this unstuck movie what are the types of things that they would find valuable like maybe you can take one of the points that you talk about in unstuck and kind of unpack it a or maybe it's a lesson that you learned recently kind of in regards to that topic or maybe it's more of like a personal story about you and going back to when you were in debt and with that felt like and really just connecting with them more emotionally it doesn't always have to be this massively like here's everything I learned over the past 30 days super valuable type of email if you're striking any kind of emotional corridor you're giving value in the sense this is something that this person hasn't heard before it'll be valuable for them so weekly I would start doing that at least for like a couple of months before you consider launching a course just to build that trust and connection with fire yeah just doesn't feel right to just to say hey guys by this yeah even if it's a couple of weeks it needs to you need to kind of build that relationship but those people right exactly yeah and they need to feel like they know you kind of to be able to buy something from you and then during that seven to ten day launch what it actually do before you you launch the course is have some sort of free thing that goes out for maybe a week maybe it's a series of emails like a free challenge like the free unstuck challenge that helps them kind of get unstuck with some very basic principles that you're teaching maybe you send them an email every day for three days or something like that so they're getting these emails from you they're getting into the mindset of the things you talk about in unstuck and then the following week you can be like hey if you liked that and you've got some good results from this challenge then I'm opening up enrollment for my unstuck course and for those seven to ten days I would email this is gonna sound crazy to you but I would probably email almost every day almost every day there will be a couple few days maybe where you don't email maybe someone on weekends especially and then there will be days like the final day when the enrollment closes that you would want to email like two to three times and it might sound insane I might worry that people are going to come out with pitchforks and just unsubscribe and hate you but a most people won't even notice and b the people who really need the course are not going to see it if you send one or two emails so you want to make sure that if people really need this that they're actually seeing it so making sure to send pretty frequently and then see as sending multiple emails on days when like the enrollment is closing to make sure that they see it otherwise you'll get emails from people who are like oh my gosh I completely missed it after you sent them 15 emails I was in a couple of weeks and I didn't even see it I forgot yeah so I mean in terms of the open versus close enrollment you were saying you don't do that anymore or is that as many as you just for okay yeah so you can another avenue you could do so I do both sometimes I'll open up a course and then close it and then other times I've got courses that are just open you're around and then I have some kind of sales funnel and we do Facebook ads and that kind of thing to lead people into buying that course and really converting their mindset and like kind of stuff too needing it I think I think probably a good takeaway here because it can get complicated once you get into the weeds and there's like a lot that you can do I'm glad I got started even though I started on the wrong foot and I started I did it is totally wrong and I probably could have optimized it in a better way and probably gotten a better open rate say if I had released unstuck right away right as I was opening up my newsletter most important part is to get started and then you can start to layer on these things like you're talking about sales funnels sounds complicated sounds like I'm not ready for that but also I feel like the more I do this yeah the easier it is to start to bring these things in to create that chain of emails 510 emails they're already written you know you just kind of have to figure out the tech behind it and how to implement it right yeah so I would start with just the launch get that going get the validation and then you can like you said focus on things like sales funnels maybe creating a course with minimalist and and all that kind of good stuff right how do you know what projects you're selecting and you're choosing is it do you have trouble narrowing down and saying especially for a big project this is what I'm going to dedicate the next three to six months to hmm well A it has to be fun and fulfilling for me it has to I can't wake up and be like oh my god I have to do that thing hate that thing it has to be so thing where I'm like oh yes I'm excited to do this thing today so it has to be fun and fulfilling and then I also want to make sure that it's going to work with my audience so I'll usually send out a survey before I create some kind of new product everything that I sell now is something that I've already launched and sold before so I've already got that validation but if I were going to come out with a new product I'd want to make sure that it would actually resonate and people would want to buy it so I would send out a survey and kind of see where my audience is stuck where they are seeing challenges or what they're struggling with and then find those pieces that seem to be patterned with my audience sort of the things that come up over and over again with them and which one of these things or maybe all of them can I package into a course or product that's also fun for me to create and to talk about so I think it's that balance of helping them but also making sure I enjoy it too and what were some of these to get specific what were some of the most recent projects that you've done so we recently wrapped up a launch for a course I have called blog tip is Hive which takes people who have a blog right now or maybe create some kind of content like a podcast or YouTube channel but they're not making money or not making much and helping them learn how to get more traffic to their website brother email list and then eventually launch an online course so pretty similar to the process we just talked about yeah yours right well that's the thing that fascinates me and there's a parallel to freelance filmmakers freelance designers is I know a lot of people that are really talented and I know a lot of people who have really big followings but the translation into income and creating sustainable business off of that isn't always that straightforward and it's actually really complicated I think in a lot of ways I lucked out is I had to learn from experience I had some mentors that helped me along the way not a lot but I was able to at least I had some time to be able to learn from my mistakes mistakes to build up but I could have seen myself easily ending up in a position where I'm working a job that doesn't fulfill me doing work that I don't like why do you think people with audiences is there a unique challenge to that to actually making a sustainable business from an an already built audience I think there's a lot of differences from that to the freelance world and I'm curious about the unique challenges there yeah so I think you're absolutely right where I've seen plenty of people who have half a million Instagram followers and are still working a corporate job because they can't make enough money from the Instagram account or who have big audiences I was just talking to someone recently who has an email list of 70,000 people and and she didn't know how to monetize it and I was like oh my gosh she can be making so much money I can make this huge business so I think a lot of it is just people come at it from the sense of wanting to provide value wanting to create community without thinking of monetizing it quickly enough and I waited until my email list was I think 8,000 people before launching my first course which I think is way too long and I think it's just kind of that sense of well I don't know what to do or like this is good enough I guess so I'm making I'm getting by but I think if you have an audience even if it's 1,000 people 2,000 people if you've got people who read your emails or follow you on Instagram you could have a full-time business and it's just a matter of learning the tactics how are you going to do that which you could find in an online course you could find not even Google or talking to people and make it happen and you'll learn along the way to even more strategies like we were talking about but I think if you've got an audience then that's the perfect just foundation for doing whatever you want whatever kind of business you want to have yeah because people respect your voice they obviously want to hear what you have to say or watch and look at what you create yeah there's like a huge platform to to take say if you have a youtube channel that has a bunch of followers or an Instagram there's something about what you're creating that people really like is it always that easy though to translate what people enjoy for free say like podcasting if I don't want to put advertisements on my podcast and a lot of people don't like doing that ways to to monetize in a way when people are used to getting stuff for free well I think it's just what's the value that you're providing and this thing that you're packaging up so if you have a podcast on growing a business and and that's the theme of your podcast then maybe it's not that you have podcast episodes that people pay for maybe that doesn't translate and I think it's important to have the free stuff too like what are they getting that's building the relationship with you but then if you're teaching business strategies on your podcast then maybe you can create a course that helps people in a more packaged way understand how to start their own business or maybe you start doing consulting services where people can pay you for the knowledge that maybe they could get on the podcast for free but it's it's not as targeted to their specific business is if they had paid you for consulting and then they have to like sort through all of your podcast episodes find the one that's actually going to help them so a lot of people would be willing to pay for a course or a service or a product that maybe you even have somewhere for free but your product or service will package it up in a way that's designed for them and doesn't mean that and means that they don't have to go through hordes of episodes or blog posts to find the steps and try and piece it together they actually have the formula right in front of them moving forward how are you approaching your personal growth and who are the people that you go to for advice what are the books that you read when you feel stuck yeah so I lately have been really making more of a commitment to my personal growth I think I've always had this kind of on enough daily ritual where I would do all these different things and on the days that I didn't do it was because I thought well I'm busy it takes me an hour to do all that stuff and I'll just maybe I'll do it tomorrow and I started to realize well if I'm not prioritizing my own growth then what's the point of having my own business because this is supposed to be the type of business that gives me the freedom to do and and be what I want and once I realized that I was like oh maybe I should I should have some more space and balance in my life so for my own personal growth I do have my daily ritual that I'm pretty committed to doing every day I have an app called way of life that I love you can put in all of your little rituals and routines that you want to do and then every day you mark off if you completed it and the thing I like about it is that you can't break the chain or it kind of tells you how many days in a row you've done the thing and what your personal record is like yesterday I was taking a shower and I was it was really cold at night and I hadn't done my cold shower yet which is one of my routines taking a cold shower one minute cold shower and I was like I don't want to do this but I know that I have my personal record right now on my cold showers I'm just going to do it and I was glad that I did because it's part of my routine and kind of that commitment to myself but so that's one of them and then also journaling writing out gratitude meditating every day eating healthy at least one healthy meal if I like eat something bad then maybe it's okay but when I'm perfect yeah we're in a perfect and then getting outside or exercising at least five times a week even if it means just going for a walk around my neighborhood I think all of those things I know impact how I show up in the world and if I don't do them then I start to see it after a few days and if I do do them then I just feel like I show up more as this more vibrant colorful version of myself and then I also think that there always be things about ourselves that we can work on like once you work through that one thing that's been following you your whole life then you'll get to the next level and there'll be another thing that you could work on and another thing and I think that that's actually pretty inspiring that there's always the next level of our lives and so for me I'm always trying to work with spiritual coaches or just personal development coaches or therapists who help me identify those things and then help me translate and work through them too so I meet with people every couple weeks I would say to kind of talk about those things and work through them that's been really helpful to and then for personal development books I feel like I'm reading my four books at a time all the time yeah so right now I'm reading um Brine Brown's new book heard a lot about that one yeah I'm trying to remember what it's called so I last one was daring greatly I forget the name of this one yeah this one's something like a alone in the wilderness I know that's wrong but something like that's been really good so far yeah and then I'm reading a course in miracles made easy which has been really eye-opening and that's been an amazing book well you were saying before it connects to that notion of like we are perfect the way we are but also we can be better yeah it's it's contradictory in life it's contradictory but I think that that that sentiment it resonates with me even if it doesn't make sense and I think that's a good good place to start a segment we call quick questions it's quick questions not quick answers unless you want the answers be quick um I'm just gonna ask you some some a list of questions here okay I love the music too yeah it's pretty good it's like elevator music I have this whole setup literally just for one or two music tracks um so question number one what's easier said then done um I think personal growth changing transforming the things in your life that that need to be fixed or amended I think they're kind of like life long things that you need to to work on but it's so easy to say like oh yeah just fix something and your life will be perfect but yeah it's definitely a life long commitment how do you deal with criticism I so I when I started my blog would feel very hurt by criticism especially in the online world and then I started to realize that if people are criticizing me and I'm I'm going at more of the the angle that their mean spirited versus constructive if it's constructive and it's coming from a loving place then I'm all for it I appreciate the feedback but a lot of the time especially in the online world you'll find people and not honestly even in the regular world too if people are mean to you or criticizing you what I've found is that happy stable secure people don't go out of their way to be cruel or mean to other people so now whenever that happens to me I always think of what's the loving most loving thing that I could do to this person what could I say to this person that makes them feel like I actually care about them versus kind of going back and trying to you attack them or something like that I've had instances where people comment on my social media and say really mean things and I'll respond to them and and say I know you're better than this I appreciate you and or things along those lines and I get messages back sometimes from people who say I'm crying now because your response made me feel so much better and that's not who I am and I don't know why I said that and so I think whenever we get criticism or in somebody's mean to us just remembering that it's never about us it's always about something inside of themselves it's their insecure about or that it's coming out from from them and a mean spirited way and reacting to them with love and trying to remind them of that to you what one skill should everyone learn empathy what one skill have you leveraged in a way that others haven't and let's talk about with respect to your business yeah I feel like I don't want to say empathy again but I feel like a lot of people in my space in my kind of industry of teaching entrepreneurs and things like that it can feel very business focused and one thing that I feel like I'm good at and this helped me grow community pretty quickly is that I'm open and I'm vulnerable I'm very transparent with I used to do income reports where I'd share everything that we spent money on that month and every way that we made money and really just peel back the curtain of I don't care if you know all my secrets like here it is you can have it and also just sharing some of those things about my personal life that I'm working through that I've worked through and not feeling ashamed about those things somebody asked me like how do you share that stuff without feeling like oh my god I can't believe people are reading this and for me it's like if it's in service of other people then then it's helping them and it's tying us more deeply together versus if I just pretended like everything was great all the time and wasn't honest or transparent with my audience so I think the honesty, the transparency and the vulnerability have been really huge yeah that's I think the hardest thing to do is when you first start to be vulnerable online in a public way it's difficult but I've been doing it for a little bit and just vulnerability and just saying like I have sometimes I have no idea what I'm talking about most of the time I don't and just be willing to say when you're wrong and to be curious about things and I've had people message me and be like oh I appreciate how honest you are in your podcast and I'm like like I didn't even I guess I didn't even think about that like it was obviously initially when I first started doing this I was like I just really want to be authentic and be myself and then it becomes easier and easier than more you do it right and that's what ties people to to you even closer yeah totally um okay so two more questions here and then we'll be wrapped up um name one thing people need to read listen to or watch before they go to bed tonight who like that watch a talk by Wayne Dyer have heard of Wayne Dyer heard of him but I haven't watched any of his talks he's like a big I want to say spiritual leader but obviously doesn't come from any denomination or anything like that but listening to him I think it's hard to feel anything but connection to the world and to what you're doing in your life and to feel like more powerful and more less less anxious about the things that you're working on so I think Wayne is huge hugely helpful so I would definitely say listen to something from his on YouTube he's awesome great and lastly how should people connect with you on life oh so you can connect with me on my website it's Melissa Griffin dot com my name is Delta Lil Funkie it's a meal why SSA and then I have a podcast called Persuit with Purpose which is at Persuit Purpose dot com all right Melissa thanks coming on the show thank you so much this is great conversation thanks for listening to the ground up show if you like this podcast there's something you can do right now to help head on over to iTunes and leave a quick review I print out every single one and I put them up on my mood board above my bed okay that's not true but I still notice and appreciate everyone for more on the ground up show including behind the scenes videos check out groundupshow dot com thanks for listening
