# One thing these times have taught me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SsOhotuM-bI
I'm going to match every dollar up to $10,000. Let's go!
Support Black Lives: https://secure.actblue.com/donate/ms_blm_homepage_2019
Support Aboriginal Lives: https://justice.org.au/donate/

Please send a screenshot of your donation to donate@mattdavella.com so I can match your contribution.

Monetization is turned off for this video.

Follow these amazing black creators:

Antonia Hylton is brilliant journalist that covers powerful stories for Vice News and NBC News. Whenever I see her put out a story I listen. Follow her here: https://www.instagram.com/ahylton26

Alexis Wilkinson is a hilarious writer, director and comedian. She definitely had me laughing more than any other guest I've had on my podcast. Follow her: https://twitter.com/ohgoditsalexis

T.K. Coleman has such an inspiring and thoughtful voice. He’s the kind of guy who pauses for 10 seconds before answer a question because he truly wants to get it right. Go follow him: https://www.instagram.com/officialtkcoleman

Kevin Curry has a personality that’s absolutely contagious and he’s crazy talented in the kitchen. I learned so much from the few hours we spent in the kitchen cooking and even more from our podcast together. Follow him: https://www.instagram.com/fitmencook

Elliott Ashby was one of my earliest podcast guests and I'm so glad I met this dude. Elliott shares beautiful photos of black people dancing, smiling and celebrating life on Instagram. When all we seem to see in the media are negative images of black men, I think it’s important that we see these images of love, compassion and joy: https://www.instagram.com/elliott_ashby

Quddus Philippe is a caring, compassionate and so welcoming. I remember when he came over to do our podcast interview and he yelled my named from the street down below. I wish I had an ounce of his confidence. Follow Quddus here: https://www.instagram.com/quddus

These are the people who spoke in the clips I used in this video:
Patrisse Cullors: https://twitter.com/OsopePatrisse
Keegan Michael Key: https://twitter.com/keeganmkey
Kendrick Sampson: https://www.instagram.com/kendrick38

If you have the means please consider making a contribution to the charities I mention above. I would love nothing more than to raise $20,000 for these amazing charities. Thank you and I hope you're doing okay.

#blacklivesmatter #blm
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2020-06-10

## Transcript
 So last week, like much of the world, I decided to take to social media to share my support for Black Lives. After two hours of writing and rewriting and writing some more, trying to find the right words to share how I was feeling, I found the truth that many of us have collectively felt. It's hard to put the last week into words. For many reasons, but mostly because my words don't matter right now. This isn't my moment to share. It's my time to listen and to take action. So if I'm being honest, it didn't feel like there was anything I could possibly say in this moment that would help. And I realized that when we spend all this time thinking about what we're going to say, all this time talking, it's impossible to actually listen. And so that's what I've started to do over the past week. To really step back, to start to listen to so many voices that I haven't yet heard, so many stories that I haven't yet seen. And it's really taught me a lot about what it means to change. And not just what it means to change ourselves, but to also change the lives of others. One of the biggest lessons that I've learned about self growth and what's become clear over the past week is how it requires so much more than just yourself. We learn from each other. It's going to keep happening until something gives and I can't keep being the people who are the victims that get blamed. We need the people who are empowered to be accountable. We rely on books and videos to inspire us. It brings up the question over and over again. What do we really do? How can we really stop this? Because it's exhausting. Yes, there needs to be something inside of us that stirs us to action. But more often than not, the seeds of change begin with someone else's voice. Us together collectively are going to end this. When we fight, we win and we are going to continue fighting. And that story of growth never ends. It's probably the one thing that connects everyone in this community here on YouTube more than anything else. That we're driven to learn, to grow, and to improve our lives and the lives of those around us. What's true of building habits, routines, and improving your own productivity is also true for social change. We need to have an open mind. We need to recognize our mistakes. And most of all, we need each other. When I took the time to actively listen, to stand with the protesters, to hear the speeches, it opened up my eyes to the hurt and pain that so many black people in America have faced for their entire lives. Black culture is inextricably linked to American culture. We listen to the music, eat the food, wear the clothes, watch the movies, enjoy the art, and now it's time that we listen to the voices. When they say that they're being discriminated against. When they say that, they don't feel safe in front of police. When they say that they need our help, we need to listen. Now, I've felt so many conflicting feelings over the past couple weeks. I felt so much sadness, sadness for George Floyd, his family, and the countless others who have succumbed to police brutality. And I've also felt hopeful when I see these protests, when I see these statues being torn down, which represent centuries of oppression, you start to feel the change that's about to come. It feels like nothing that I've ever experienced in my lifetime. After I made that one simple post on Instagram, I started to hear from many of you in this community. I felt the love and appreciation for supporting a cause that's so personal to so many of you. It's easy to get negative about the reaction on social media, questioning people's intentions, wondering if they really care or if they're just posting for attention. But I learned that that doesn't really matter. Intensions are important, but they're not nearly as important as action. And so whether you're simply making a social media post, or you're getting out and protesting, or you're listening to a podcast, or you're making a donation, all of these things help. And so no matter how big or how small of an action you take, the most important thing is that you're helping to move things forward. And so I wanted to try to do a little bit of good in this video, and help to raise some money for two amazing charities. One for black Americans and another for aboriginal Australians. And so for every dollar that you donate to these two charities, the charities linked down in the description below, my wife Natalie, and I will match up to $10,000. After you donate, make sure you send a screenshot of that donation to donate at MattDevela.com. That way, I can keep track of everything and make sure that we're matching all the way up to $10,000. The top five donations, the five donations that are the most generous, I will give a special shout out in my video next week. So that would mean a whole lot to me. And I hope that gives you that nudge that you need to be super generous during these times. So, truthfully, this video was difficult to make, because I don't like talking about difficult subjects. Because you guys know I generally like to keep things very light on this channel, and that's because I like to keep things light in my own life. And so when I sat down to start thinking about what I wanted to say in this video, I was thinking about those of you in this community that watched this channel every week that have been affected by discrimination and racism. And so I'm really talking to you guys. I really want you to know that I'm here for you. I'm in your corner. I'm rooting for you. I'm fighting for you. I'm going to try to raise as much money as I possibly can for you. And I'm listening. So, thank you guys so much for watching, and I'll see you next time. By the way, if you don't have the money to donate right now, that's okay. I've shared links to a few of my favorite black creators. Some of which you might recognize from the ground up show in the description below. If I'm going to keep some kind of commitment to myself, even if it's only 30 days, I'm telling someone. And this social media age is so easy to look to the person to the left and right of us and see what they're doing. It's not waiting for again that perfect opportunity to come to you. Instead of making a contribution, you could go give them a follow. They're inspiring voices that are definitely worth your attention.
