# Living with a Sense of Urgency // Ground Up 070
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tl2iixeX1FU
Lewis Howes: http://lewishowes.com/

Lewis Howes is a professional football player turned entrepreneur, podcaster & author. On this episode of The Ground Up Show we discuss...

1. Why people need to live with a sense of urgency.

2. Getting clear on your vision & the questions you should be asking yourself.

3. And we talk about our mutual admiration & ambition to get Dwayne The Rock Johnson on our respective podcasts.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-07-25

## Transcript
 Hey everybody and welcome back to the ground up show. My name is Matt Dihevella and my guest today has been featured on Ellen the today show and fast company He's the professional football player turn podcast or an author. His name is Lewis house on the show Lewis and I talk about why you need to live with a sense of urgency He discusses getting clear on your vision and the questions you should be asking yourself especially when you're stuck We also probably spend a little bit too much time talking about our mutual admiration and respect for Dwayne the rock Johnson as well as our Ambition to get the man himself on each of our podcasts and speaking of the rock You guys you guys are amazing last week. I announced a competition to get the rock on Matt's podcast jingle competition trademark all rights reserved And you've started to send in your five to seven second jingles and they are incredible So essentially every great journey needs a great jingle everybody knows that that's obvious I shouldn't even need to say it So you guys have created this jingle that will potentially play every time I mention the rock on this podcast If this is the first episode you're listening to you're probably ridiculously confused But basically for the past year and a half I've been trying to get the rock on my podcast. I've been tweeting at him. He's tweeted back twice It's been an amazing journey. It's you can go to get the rock on Matt's podcast.com to really get the full scope and all the details So fights to say it's not over yet It's not even close. So I need a jingle to help carry me through so every time It's a little button. It's nice little punch every time we can bring up the rock on the podcast Which is quite often We will play the the winning jingle. So I'm gonna also go through a lot of these jingles on the show I'm gonna start sharing them with you guys and I'm gonna pick a winner in about two to three weeks I haven't decided exactly when I'm gonna close this just because it's so much fun But you if you follow me on YouTube or on the podcast you will know when the winning submissions are being selected and when the entry to the competition will be closed All right, so enough about that. Let's get into this week's podcast. This is the one and only Louis House Is it is it I find myself doing this a lot talking about podcasts on a podcast. Yeah, do you think listeners care Not sure I don't think I've ever done an episode just on podcast, but with other podcasts. I've started out talking about it Maybe they do. I don't know. No, yeah, I find it interesting. How do you do know it? No one's messaged me in but like that was amazing when you guys were talking about podcasting No one ever said that so that's true I haven't heard that either Maybe it's for a specific audience But I do like the I think people do like the behind the scenes stuff And they like to see like what actually goes into making this because you see the the polished Product you see the final The final video or the final podcast and everything seems obvious But then if you were to take a step back, but I don't see your janky like hacks Some of your cameras and to make sure that everything's good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They don't see all the stress that leads up to issue and all the things that that Do go wrong along the way That's what I'm trying to do a little bit. It's kind of break down some of that. So it's talking about the podcast itself is I like it. It kind of helps You've been doing this for a while. This is this is something you've been in for I actually look back at some of your Early YouTube videos. I like to do some scouting and it's just it's just really interesting The time that you started 2000 before 2010 like 2008 maybe for what podcasting or just in general Well, I was looking at some of the early videos. I started my first YouTube video I believe was in 2006 or 2007 Was a video I did yeah, I must have been 10 years ago. I guess 11 years ago Was a video I did when soldier boy came out with his Popper their song. I think you know I had one big song. It's called Superman. I don't know if you remember this song Oh, yeah, and And the dance video was like a big hit and so I redid the video with four other White football player dudes that I was like coaching at the time I was coaching blind receivers at a college and I was like, let's do this and See if it can go viral or something and it went viral like I picked up on Some newsfeed and yeah, they picked it up and shared it everywhere And I think it got like a few hundred thousand views on my video right there and I never really used YouTube that much until later I started to do a few videos here and there in 2010 When I just started creating other content, but I picked it up two and a half years ago more We're started doing every week. Yeah, it seemed like Early on it was just Interviews like you happen to be around some people that you found interesting and then flip out a phone or At a conference yeah, and It just it seems like From where you started it's obviously grown a lot, but what I attracted to you to the idea of just like making content because You know now we hear about this every day everybody's talking about you got to make content You know, it's got to be consistent this and that and At that time was it so obvious you know back in 2008 Twitter was getting big and I remember Getting on Twitter and Everyone talking about making content and a content is king back in you know 10 years ago And I realized that that was the way to build credibility authority in an audience if I wasn't creating content Then what was I doing just replying to people or just watching people stuff So I knew if I wanted to build any type of authority in any space that I needed to be a creator early on And that was a lot of micro content back then it wasn't like I was making films or long form Podcasts, but I just knew I needed to create something and I would go to all these social media events or Comments is and just Learn from guys like Gary Vaynerchuk 10 years ago He was talking about this or other experts and And in that process I would just start like doing reviews like here's what I learned at this conference from this person here's what I took away from this Session that I went to and I would kind of just do that cliff notes over videos And that was my and I'd get feedback and the more I would do that people would recognize who I was That was start to follow me And I said let me figure out this content thing because it's it's working and it's evolved in the last decade Yeah, and it's a it's a lot of work and it's not exactly Direct relation to monetizing or making money. You know, obviously now we can do a podcast and put it advertisement on it and that's one of the easiest ways But for a lot of people Starting out making content and building an audience doesn't exactly relate to building a business Yeah, I mean, well, it's hard to build an audience first off and there's over half a million podcasts out there So if no one's listening or watching then you're not gonna make any money So you can create all the content you want, but if you're not differentiating yourself it doesn't matter Or if you don't already have a platform or a distribution network to get your content or front of it's gonna be really hard to make money and I realized early on that content was hard to make and that's why I said let me do something different Which is interview. So you know 10 years ago. I was interviewing people randomly But then as I started my podcast I started interviewing more intentionally and learning how to interview How to create content that I didn't have to come up with all time because you your your filmmaker It's a lot of work to develop an idea massage the idea story board it shoot it edit it Refine it, you know, do all those things to do that deep work on a specific piece of content it takes a lot of energy in mind space And you can't do that much of it quickly But interviewing you can do it extremely quickly and You can get some great content out of someone else But I don't have to create You know a bullet point list of like a topic that I'm covering and the research and stories and examples I can just ask good questions and I think that's what's Been key for me to be able to create you know 600 plus episodes in five plus years is terrain reviews Not from me just doing it. I think the big part of of getting interviews in one of the hurdles that I found early on was like Who do you interview like how do you land interviews especially big interviews? It's not easy man. It's yeah. I've been doing this for years And my podcast, you know is in some ways it's amazing how it positioned it because it's called the school of greatness and other ways I can't go backwards with like quality of guests and content So once I get one caliber of guest I've got to get someone that's equally as good on that level or greater to continue to improve The school of greatness It's not called the like the school of pretty good or the school of average. It's like how do we get to the next level next level And so for me that demands and requires a lot of me to continue to go out there and network and build relationships There's some guests that I've been emailing and texting the rocks publics for almost four years now. You see this? There you go. Picture the rock. I'm doing the same thing. I didn't see that. Yeah, yeah I've been doing that for almost four years now because he's been one of the guys that I want to get on well Smith the rock I've been working on those guys for a while and Just six time, you know, it just takes time for a lot of these things. There's some guys that I spent You know Rob Deerdeck. I was reaching out to his team for about a year and a half before I was able to get him on and now we're we're good friends You know, I just went on his show ridiculousness a couple days ago as a guest We've done business together We've helped each other out, but that's the beauty of Landing the inspiring guests because you can start to build a relationship and do other things with them And that's the way I look at my podcast. It was never a way to like build a business My podcast started as an idea to help improve my life and then share that wisdom with other people and I realized that if I could connect with some of the most inspiring people in the world Share their content to a large audience and help them achieve their goals Then everything I want's gonna happen if I just serve other people and that's kind of how it all started Then as the audience grew people said hey can you create a book? Can you create a course? Can you do an event like how can we learn more? Can you put together other stuff? Everything that I've created in the last five years has come because of what people have demanded from me on my podcast It wasn't like I'm gonna go right books and courses and host these big conferences It's what my audience what in and I just gave a tone I'm gonna we'll talk about the rock in a little bit. That's funny. You have that. That's the only photo you have in your In the department is the rock. Do we frame photo for sure? That's actually I got big news This this is probably gonna come out way after that this actually happened So I too have been trying to get the rock on my podcast not as long as you but I've made it like a running theme of the show Actually have a website. It's called get the rock on Matt's podcast on hilarious. I'm going all out Dude, that's that's another level in me. I've got two tweets from the rock Shut up. I swear to god. I could show it to you. That's amazing. Yeah, honestly like what did you say two days ago? I got a tweet from what yeah, I'm not joking. I like I filmed a video about it because I like just lost my shit I swear to god. It was it's same so the first time it wasn't like on your screen Say, yeah, yeah, yeah, I should actually make it my background The first time so it's like it's been a runnin theme. I'm like I just really very specific I wanted to prove to people like I didn't actually I kind of thought it could happen But also at the same time as you know it's it's never know you never know it's like you're not supposed to set goals that are based upon other people Saying yes, or no, but at the same time it's like I was like screw it. I'm gonna go for it So I have been like taking like these photos and me reading his book He's got this book the rock says so that was the first one was like me on Fairfax reading his book I think I quoted him and said the inspiration I was getting from it and he's like, oh man. Thanks so much Wait, are you just posted a photo in like a quote? Yeah, it's like thanks for getting the inspiration from it. I really appreciate that But I said nothing about get the rock on my podcast because also and even when I reply to him I just try to banter back and make a joke because I'm like I'm not gonna make it be like I'm trying to get something out of him, but then this last time I actually did include the website and Oh my god, where is it right here? Okay, so this is the photo. You can and like yeah, you can see they reply right there Still frame photo of the rock on my wall. No, he hasn't returned my phone calls, but I'm not giving me up If you also want to see the rock come on my podcast good to get the wrongest podcast Yeah, you got the 1600 likes my all-time favorite pick. Thanks for the love man And that's because you keep calling me from my Babe on and collect gals who the fuck does that anymore? That's whole areas. Is that crazy? Did he get back to anymore No, I replied I said sorry man cash is tight. I don't have that leather fanny pack money. That's whole there And that was it. I was like I got to come back. I was something I actually filmed the whole thing because I was like and then I realized like shit I need a response that's great and like part of me was like maybe I should just like I mean that's funny You know it's interesting. I'm so funny that I I didn't see this. I didn't know anything about that That we're both doing the same thing One of the other person when I started I was like who'd be the top three that I'd love to get on Obviously I like you know Oprah and Obama and all these people would be like amazing to get But for whatever reason the three names that came to mind when I first started were the rock will Smith and Jim carry those were like three that came to mind that I believe You know because I've had a lot of celebrities that I've been offered to me to interview but I just didn't feel good about them like I didn't feel like they were doing something Inspiring in the world. They were just famous for being a movie star or something But I was like if I don't believe in you that you're making an impact then I don't really care as much But I always felt like Jim carry just had a positive mind. You know he's a meditator He thinks very differently the rock. I used to play football professional football got cut. We were both kind of from the same You know mindset if we weren't that good but we worked hard and now he's much you know Got on to do incredible things as you know and will Smith as well just like the way he thinks in the way he speaks and the way he acts is really deliberate and intentional and so I bought I got really close to giving Jim carry on as well about a year ago For a project he had it. I was on the phone this publicist she was like I think I can make it happen if you can fly to Montreal And I'll give you this window and I was like let's do it and it fell through But I'm not giving up. I went to Hawaii and saw his artwork in an art store like in a Whatever, you know you don't art place and it's original art was on the wall that you could buy And I was like I'm gonna buy when it was original artwork So I bought when it was a original artwork. It's actually like there's like 50 prints of it or whatever But he signs it and everything it still hasn't shipped to me yet I've got it two months ago But I'm gonna do a whole like video and peace like sharing it out on Twitter because he thingy cares about the most is his art I don't know if you're aware of this about Jim carry but he loves painting and so I'm always looking for the Thing that people care about the most and speaking to their heart and adding value to that thing So whatever it is with the rock and we'll figure it out together Yeah, yeah, if either of us make it happen and we'll have to put in a good word But yeah, it's like it's something beyond Just trying to get you know a popular episode or earn more money like these kind of crazy goals are I think in a way just proving to ourselves and proving other people that like you can just anything's possible anything's possible and If not many people are doing like not many people are doing these kinds of things Where you're just taking that extra crazy step to land them on your podcast and if you are able to do what others aren't There's a shot if it's five percent if it's one percent I feel like it's worth it and it's also like yeah This is something I just learned from my friends of a podcast called the Daily Talk Show and they had a Hamish who I don't know if you know Hamish Blake he's like a really popular Australian Radio guy and and they just had a conversation they used to work with him and and He like they're so funny so popular. They're like national treasures and Australia and he was talking about How they come up with these ideas but the ideas aren't really about the execution of what it is It's about like the getting there and it's actually making fun It's like they would plan these races through Vietnam It's crazy crowded streets and like they it was like they turned it into like a indie NASCAR race So it was like you have to complete 250 laps around this one circle and it wasn't about completing the race It was about like what's gonna happen along the way our car is gonna break down Are we gonna get an accident or are we gonna get arrested? It's all that stuff along the way that makes it fun So you haven't heard from Will Smith either. I'm guessing well, but I also haven't been like Too aggressive on any one of them. I haven't like built websites and then all these things But I am very persistent with People on their team of just like following up and saying hey like again with the rock I messaged publish this all its ominous say I see he's got a new movie out Can I get 20 minutes when he's doing press day? I'll like just fit me in you know I mean it's just like constantly showing up and showing how serious that I am And also saying what call the numbers have how much I've grown look at my size like it all these things that helps us well, but I haven't made it like a life or death Need because it's not yet and I want to make sure that it's like you know authentic and genuine But if I was given like six months to get the rock on my podcast or I was going to die I'm sure I would like show up and just stalk him Whatever you know whatever would take yeah, like I would do whatever it takes exactly and or get creative or like create a movie That's like all about how I want to get the rock on and like put it up on YouTube and drop a million views to it So he sees it or something. You know Yeah, and I think part of it though too is that like this for me and I started this like now I have like A small audience, but like when I started it I had like a hundred downloads per episode Yeah, so it was just so absurd and it was part of the idea and it actually makes sense like I'm very self-deprecating So it's like a kind of fit because I feel like we're you're at like you're so established It would legitimately would be good press for him and a good interview I think it'd be amazing. I think it'd be a my opinion. I think it'd be the best interview He's ever done. Yeah, maybe that's a big claim Because I would ask him the things Where I could relate to him on his level from being a former pro athlete being broke Having a dream shattered and figuring out what you're gonna do next Like I can relate to that on a very personal level. I have that same experience I don't know if Oprah has that experience right of like she didn't play football and didn't like Do these things she had a different experience which she could relate to but The thing that he relates to the most is like being this athlete like this masculine guy He prides himself in his fitness and his football days and he talks about it all the time And there's not many interviewers who played pro football because if or maybe like Michael Strahan or something But I would really want to tap into his heart and get him to share things as he's never shared and that'd be the key Well, you guys is like you said not only just those the sports and the injury But then I also like the Making a change and then just realizing oh, I got to do a complete one eighty here I got to figure out what my life path is when like you work so long and so hard for something and then it's just gone It's like imagine you're filmmaking for 25 years and then you weren't able to do it anymore. Yeah, you go I'm gonna touch a camera ever again or at it Or talk about it. You couldn't do anything that you couldn't sit in an anything bag You couldn't storyboard you couldn't do anything and it in so many I think that there's probably certain skills that you learn that are universal that would probably help you Like things like consistency and and putting in the work and all that but then apart from that like it's gonna be a grind I don't think your the rock would be where is that if you didn't play sports 100% and I bet he would agree to that. I mean you can tweet in that and say would you be where you're at without Playing high school college and professional football. I just don't think he would Because that's where he learned how to work hard. That's where he learned how to get into the you know Into wrestling and like know what it takes to be at the top. He was around champions and college and at the pros He was around that mindset and that mentality and I think that's where you get you're like Just your chops, you know, so You brought up something interesting just like from the perspective of like having a completely unique conversation With the rock like having a conversation that's never been had before and I imagine in a lot of ways That's what you try to do with every podcast like that's one that's that's very specific in nature But how do you how do you go about doing that because I think it is like people go on these runs of interviews promoting a book and they do 100 interviews over that stint. It's like how do you you know pull them out of the auto I asked personal questions I asked questions pertaining to the heart and For me, it's all in the setup as well. It's really when we sit down I asked them a number of questions before I actually begin the podcast I say do you have any questions for me before we begin and then just hear what they say do you have any requests Is there anything off limits and if they tell me what's off limits then I say okay we won't go into that Usually that's the thing we do need to go in if they're like I don't want to speak about this unless it's politics I don't care but if they're like well, I don't want to talk about my relationship or something in that that I'm like well, let's dive into that And then I asked them What would make this the most powerful interview you've ever done in your life so that everyone who listens to this is completely transformed and wants to share with the world And just that alone gets them thinking differently about oh this isn't just another 10 minute like Spitting off the bullet points of like my publicist what they told me to say This is Dropping into a whole new level to make this the most powerful interview have ever done and that's the key is to get people to think that way What will get you to open up in a way so that people are transformed when they listen? But they're moved when they listen that they take action on what you say and that they move forward and share it out with other people So that more people are inspired by you my goal is to lift people up and give them that platform to share things that never shared And that's the key is to really tap into the heart of what they care about the most not about what I care about the most what did they care about it? Why did they care about it? the people that have affected them the most the lessons they've learned from the people that are closest to them For me that's what gets people to open up and not just be so routine in their responses and what's the balance between prep right like I'm sure you have Either topics or certain questions you might want to ask Versus I know firsthand there's some interviews where you're like Either off the rails like in a great way where you're just like free flow conversation and there's just an energy to it And then there's also conversations that may be more challenging that are you have to work a little bit for or They're a little bit closed reserves. Yeah, like how much control can you actually create when heading into an interview? I'm gonna try to do as much purpose like can I have someone doing the research for me and telling me the main things or things that I might have missed and for me it's really reading energy. It's just being an open vessel to read energy to listen and be present You know most of times I think people are just reading questions off of a list as opposed to listening I might ask one question off the list. I'll have 10 15 questions. Maybe I'll ask one It's really more of a place to go back to if I feel stuck if I feel like I don't know what to take this or there's a struggle in the Interview or if I'm not being mindful then maybe I'll check it and check to see like what I've missed But I should be able to ask one question and if I am trained enough and prepared enough I should be able to Go throughout the next hour Getting everything I need to make that impact on that person and the people listening through just Listening and then leaning into that response and asking a follow question and leaning into that response and asking a follow question and trying to bring it all the way back full circle so that people are impacted and inspired and I think that there's We were talking about content early on and How people are kind of desperate and and really want to create a lot of content and see like a need to do that to grow their business And then a lot of people end up creating just to row a content content that's never going to be heard. It's the the Skype interviews and yeah I did that the first year, you know, I was like I was doing that because I was on a budget and didn't have a video team and didn't have it Editor and just did it all myself and that was the way to do it quick easy throw it up and You can kind of get away and like get some results, but I think in this time We've really got to step it up. I mean you've got high-end video production quality best cameras lenses like and you can tell Through the editing that is higher quality than a Skype Screen video no screenshot video I think that's going to make a lasting difference in your quality of your brand and who you are and I realized that early on I was doing all Skype interviews because It was just easier save time and didn't people don't have to show up. I didn't have to travel and then I said You know what if I want to really step this podcast up and be different than the other few hundred thousand at the time I'm gonna do it all in person. It's got to be high quality audio and I've got to get high quality video And ever since then it just keeps growing and growing and the more I continue to increase the quality of my My environment my studio, you know the lighting and everything continues to improve then you see oh numbers are growing people are responding differently As opposed to just like me on my apple life head bones on Skype I think you have to that's part of the growth right and like learning about something new and and You have to continually be trying to improve and level up and take it one step further and like when you look back at you know podcast one to Podcast 600 or wherever you're at now you can see that progression and it's actually I think it helps Creators to to know that there is that process to know that you have to get through some shit You got to figure some stuff out But you can't let that stop you from starting yeah Why do you think most people Don't keep up with something right you get the podcast number. Yeah, there's actually I think it's Podcast fatigue they call it where you get to epist you if you can make it past episode 20 You're more than likely to keep going with it where most and you see this with blogs too Or it's like so I haven't posted in a while like people who start something and then stop Like why do we stop? I think we compare ourselves with a lot of people and if we're not where other people are then we get frustrated or we get you know kind of burnt out that like oh, I'm never gonna be where they're at So we're comparing a lot. I think also We are lazy we don't have clear vision of where we want to go So if we don't know exactly where we want to go we're just doing it because someone else is doing the same thing we think we're supposed to do it Then when it gets tough and it gets challenging we're like well, I don't want to do this today Why am I doing this and we stop when we are clear on the vision of where we're heading whether it be a podcast or any project There's going to be challenges no matter what the long you go and I just take committed to my vision and So anytime there's a challenge it doesn't stop me and I'm not comparing myself to All the biggest podcast in the world and saying I'm never gonna get there. So I'm always just give up now I'm focused on my lane and my track and I think a lot of people are focused on what everyone else is doing as opposed to what they want to do Is it possible to have a clear vision for Three years five years? You know I ever remember back in college There was advice make a business plan and then the Predictions about how much revenue you're gonna make and where it's gonna come from and to me It seems kind of crazy to think that you could predict those things without actually being in the market and actually creating stuff Yeah, I mean you can predict all you want but until you actually take action and do something You're not gonna know what the results are My vision was based on one year. I'm gonna do this for one year every single week once a week And I'm gonna get all like the smartest people I know To interview and I'm gonna see what happens. That was the original vision then year two I was like you know what I'm gonna do this twice a week every single week For the year and I'm gonna continue to grow it. I'm gonna start monetizing a little bit and I want to make 100 grand this year off of the podcast year three is like I'm gonna do it three times a week Like it was starting to become a lot more work, but I was like you know what Podcasting is starting to get some notice. I'm gonna go double down Because I want to really blow this thing up now. I got an early It's starting to pay off now everyone's trying to get in. I'm already 200 episodes in people are just jumping in now because they see everyone else doing it I was like I'm gonna go all in and the next year is like well, I'm gonna add a video I'm gonna make a better quality and I'm gonna write my first book and I'm gonna do an annual event Because my community is now saying they want to meet me and everyone else They want to meet other people like them who listen So it's like okay, let me just get a clear vision for that year and focus on where I want to take it this year And that way I'm not like okay and 10 years here's where it's gonna be I can think that a little bit like where I want it to be in 10 years Where I like it to be but things are going to change so much every month that I'm not Fixated on creating that specific result in 10 years or five years. I'm committed to The process I'm committed to Achieving my goals, but I'm not Attached to the result if it doesn't happen. I think that's huge and that's probably one of the The reasons why I tell people like you have to I'm about calculated risk I don't think that you should just leave your job before you prepare for it, but Eventually you're gonna have to get to a point where you go all in and that moment when you do go all in And when you say that's it. I'm gonna throw everything out the window and this is I'm going for it You got to give yourself one two or three years like pick a pick a certain amount of years And stick to it because it's not gonna happen in the first month or the first three months I also think don't people don't live in enough urgency You know, I think that's great. It's like pick a year two years three years and say I'm gonna give this a shot for three years And if it doesn't work, I can always go back to my job making the same thing. I was making However, people don't live with enough urgency and they don't live like it's life or death Like I wanted to do a documentary and I said I could wait a few years until I'm ready or I can just invest now Write a check get the the film crew that I want and start the process and get it done in a year You know same thing with a podcast. It was like I didn't know what I was doing. I never Launched the podcast. I didn't have to upload a thing to a blog and iTunes and all these things I had no clue I didn't have any recording equipment. I had my iPhone It's the first thing that I use and I said I'm gonna start recording and see and then put it up It wasn't like let me wait until I'm ready until I have the equipment You know I did I started doing Skype interviews and doing screen recording so wasn't like I need to know all this stuff yet I just needed to take action and I think a lot of people aren't living in urgency Which makes me frustrated because they don't want it bad enough. They don't want to just They're more afraid of failing or What people are gonna think about them as opposed to Living a life on their terms and that's what frustrates me. I think that's probably the best advice for most people Are there people that Have too much of the hustle and grind mindset a sleep when I'm dead? Sacrificing their health their relationships. I did that for years. Yeah, my early 20s I did that because I thought I needed to and in some ways I probably did need to for a couple of years But I didn't sleep much. I was eating like crap constantly and I gained about 35, 40 pounds people started calling me fluous for fat Lewis And It started to affect me emotionally just like never sleeping Not recovering working constantly chasing money or chasing results and when I learned how to Just get a much smarter with my time and focus on the things that only I should be doing and delegating the rest And focusing on sleep. You know now I go to bed by 11. I wake up at 5.30. I work on it six I'm focusing on my health and recovery and nutrition as a focus and priority as opposed to a last resort Like hustle over everything and then I know that I've taken care of myself and throughout the day I can work really hard But I'm always balancing with like having fun and relaxing as well But when I'm putting in the work I'm working really hard Are there times when you're say rushing towards a deadline you finish in at this film where Maybe there are some sacrifices you know and Sacrifices in terms of maybe not going out on the weekends or maybe working on the weekend Like those things happen a little bit. I may not never go out. You know for me. It's like it all man now I never go out. I mean it cuz I'll drink alcohol so I think sacrifice You know I've never been drunk in my life. You know I've had sips or whatever, but I Made it a priority early on in college actually. I was like I'm never gonna be the guy that goes out to bars all night long and like just For what to like Let Lewis from like the day of stress like every single day for me is fun There's work. There's challenges. There's things that I don't want to do sometimes, but it's all working towards Something that I love and for me 90% of it is fun. It's exciting So I don't need to go like take a break at night and like drink and wind down Nothing wrong with it for people, but for me it's not what I need. I like to just go watch movies and be entertained So I'll go do that as like my fun or I'll go out salsa dancing or go to the beach or whatever it may be But I don't need to be out late at night. I like to go to like book launch parties and learn from authors and You know inspiring events and TED talks and stuff like that like that for me is exciting because I'm learning and I'm growing and when we grow That's when we feel fulfilled Growth and contribution are two of the things that make us feel fulfilled as human beings So if we're not learning for not overcoming a challenge and growing It's going to be hard because we're to feel like we're staying the same or going down and if we're not contributing back to others If our work isn't helping someone else Then we're to feel like we're not in service at all and those two things every they're trying to focus on along with my health If you're not all three of those every single day It's kind of hard to not Enjoy your life. When did you first start asking these questions because I feel like It doesn't come naturally to most people to ask questions like what will fulfill me? How can I achieve happiness? How can I give? How can I help other people? Most people we kind of just get on that hamster way on we just start living life and climb in the corporate ladder Or whatever it is doing all these things were supposed to do yeah Was there a moment when or not not even a moment but a time when you started to ask these difficult questions of yourself Yeah, when I was four when I was like four until now Like I was always suffering as a kid Emotionally internally. I didn't know how to handle my emotions and I didn't know why things were happening in the world I didn't know why kids were picking on me. I don't know why kids were making fun of me. I didn't know why You know I would get in trouble and get sent to the principal's office. I was like why are these things happening and why am I suffering so much my entire childhood? I felt like I was suffering and That really meant to me to ask these questions. Well, how can I not suffer how can I feel more? Like my life matters because I think for a long time. I didn't think my life mattered and so I wanted to know how to not feel that when I think a lot of people are going through something or they're struggling in some area Their life and they want to know how do I get out of this struggle so I just want to be able to support people through my own journey as well Was there is there specific questions that you encourage people to ask themselves if they feel stuck or they feel lost? I was like what do you want? You know keep it simple. What does you want and what do you want it? And if you want something for Only for you That isn't going to impact other people in any way at all then I think you need to ask yourself why do I want this thing You know for me I wanted to be in all America and I wanted to be a professional athlete to prove people wrong about me Who said I couldn't do it and Yes, I loved playing sports and I wanted to do it for me as well, but I think my main Intention behind it was to kind of like shelving in people's faces and I achieved my results achieved my goals And I was happy for a few minutes and then I was really angry and upset right afterwards And so I said you know what? I just need to go do something else and to like achieve a bigger dream And I went and did that I started making lots of money I started doing this I didn't did everything I wanted to do and I was like why am I still not happy and I realized As I was asking the questions who whom I doing this for I realized I was doing it for me to prove other people that they were wrong about me and that's not a good way that I've learned Had to live a fulfilling life and so then I switched this mentality about five years ago where I said you know what? I'm gonna do things for me Not to prove people wrong, but because I love it and because I want to inspire other people through my journey in my process And I want to lift other people up and ever since then I've had so much more clarity focus inner peace more fulfillment and That's what's been the key as I doing it because I love something not because I need to prove something I feel like there's probably a lot of people that would look at like where you're at right now and like obviously We talked about like the early days when when things were more of a struggle and you're kind of starting over But now people might look at your social media following they might look at your podcast They they look the fact that you're doing live events and you've got books and you're doing documentary all this stuff and they think like oh I want that like that's that's something I want Why shouldn't people want it like who isn't this life for I think we you know if we want something We can desire and want something you know, I look at the rock and I'm like man that's amazing what he's done But I don't want to be a movie star. I want to build the impact he's built And I want to do it through different channels, but I don't want to be like doing movies every month and Doing all that that sounds like a nightmare. I'm not an actor I don't know maybe in five years. I'll do like some candy on a movie And I'll be like this is really cool and if people liked it and I was good. Okay, but that's not my vision But I'm inspired by his impact how he shows up in the world how he communicates with people the impact he has on people's lives the fact that Someone in Los Angeles built a website because they love him so much. They want to meet him and have him on That's impact and I want to have a life like that and so I would say don't try to be like me Because of all the things that I'm doing or the the results that I'm getting With like books and events and stuff unless that's what you really want to do But you can be inspired by my journey and say you know what? I want to be the best gymnast in high school and impact people the way Lewis is or whatever may be or the way the rock is But don't say I want to be a movie star so I can impact people like that or I want to write books because of that You're gonna figure out your angle and your your thing and this is just my thing. There's a lot of people that have Tremendous amounts of success that are famous that have large phones whatever it may be and we know that They aren't happy. Yeah, and Jim Kerry says that I wish like everyone became rich and famous and they realize that's not the key to happiness something like that quote and You know, maybe there are some people who are rich and famous who are really happy But I don't know if it's because they get Stockers walking down the street like screaming at them. I don't know if that brings them joy But maybe because they're doing meaningful work. They have great relationships They don't hold grudges or they're not resenting people You know, they feel like their work matters That's the things that's probably making them more joyful and more more happy Not because they have tons of money money creates a lot of problems too if you're not ready for it And you don't have to manage it money creates a lot of stress. There's a lot of people with handouts saying give me This give me that Oprah talked about this once on a podcast where You know Because she didn't come from this rich family or wealthy family, but as she started to gain a lot of wealth Everyone wanted to hand out and expected her to give them money constantly To the point where she says that she you know stop talking to siblings I think it was a sister of hers, so she didn't talk to it for a long time You know third cousins are saying you owe me I don't know you anything right and she talked about in this episode How she decided after years of this happening that she was just going to throw one big Like dinner celebration and she invited everyone like all of her family all the people close to her Invited everyone and it was giving away gifts to everyone giving away cash to some people I think she bought like cars for some people different extraving and gifts and said I Welcome to all here. I'm gonna throw you the best party ever the best meal and I'm gonna give you guys some great gifts Not the end of it. She said never ask for anything again for me Like I'm gonna give you what I want to give you because I want to do it not because you ask but because I want to But never ask again Maybe I'll give you some because I feel like I want to but don't ask me ever again something like this in the effect And she said that people still were ungrateful They were like how come you gave them three grand and me $1,000? Whatever may be and it's like you never gonna please everyone on Your rise and so there's other stresses that come from that people look at you differently And they once certain things supposed to your friendship and that's not It's not fun either So yeah, having no money What kind of what I say is like having money is not everything not having it is so yeah Like you don't have money. It's the most important thing in your life It's the only thing you think about. It's like health though when you don't have health You'll give up all your money in the world for that look at Steve Jobs He talked about that before he passed away He was like I would give up everything to have another week of health with my family and my friends a year or whatever May be when you're about to die you will give up everything none of it matters now when you're broke You still feel like you're gonna die sometimes if you can't pay the bills if you don't anywhere to stay It's like the second most powerful thing right besides your health and it's tough man I remember feeling was broke for a few years and it is like the feeling like you don't matter your Worthless you're gonna die like it has that feeling to it as well I don't know if you've ever had that probably every filmmaker has Struggling filmmakers in the beginning right and it's the worst feeling in the world and you don't know how how am I gonna make money? How am I gonna do this? And until you're able to break through then you realize it's a lot easier But when you don't know how to do it. It's like suffocating Scary in terms of Running a business making money like building up a company I guess there's there's probably two ways to go about it like move fast and break things and take your time and go really slow Where do you see yourself on that side of things move fast and break things? Yeah, it's like that from a try not to break things, but I try to move fast and Put out something really good to start and then make it great as we go as most people try to make it great right away And it takes some six months to a year to launch something because they're still fixated on the logo Or the intro video to something or whatever may be the video has gotta be perfect But really you gotta just get people results if you're a business And you've got a product or a service the key is to get someone no result that they That's gonna make their life easier Something faster for them, you know, or give them some type of value or entertainment and that's the key as I just try to always give as much value as possible As quickly as possible to see if people actually want it Then if they do let me make it better and improve it, you know the version 2.0 So That's the key for me is not think about it too much Just do it see if people are gonna pay for it then make it better. Yeah, it seems like not afraid to make mistakes Even at your level where you have like You know if you make a mistake and you release something that that maybe isn't ready then there's a lot more friction than if somebody is like Got a small business putting something out there. Yeah, I don't know. I mean Key is to like if something out that went a launch that is paid I would usually have people pay me upfront and then give it to them later So only those people see it who paid for it and if no one buys it that I don't have to create it So it's for me. It's like I do a kickstarter pretty much on everything I do without using the platform kickstarter I just say hey guys. I'm thinking of launching this Here's a place where you can pay me if you want it. I'll get it to you in a few weeks If no one pays then I don't have to it's not a good idea I didn't present it in a in a in a way that was polished enough. I guess But usually people pay it and then I'll give them version one say let me know what you think how can I make it better? And then I update it and then I bring it out to the masses. That's kind of how I do it. I love that How do you say if only two or three people? I'm sure it doesn't happen now But say it early on like two or three people respond or at least you can tell that it's not worth it to create That's not refund their money. Okay. Yeah. I mean I would just be like or I'd say hey I'll do a coaching session with you or something else be like trade for the money That was exchanged and it's kind I guess it's just an assurance on your time Yes, you put some time in the making things Imagine you made a movie that no one watched and you spent a year of your life thinking that it was the greatest thing ever Maybe you do it because you're a crazy filmmaker and you're like it's about the art and you know all these things But you know if it's your livelihood and you've got to make money as well I just feel like it's better to test something and see that people really want it or say or to get on it Even just to get on that email waitlist like hey, I'm gonna launch this thing Sign up on my newsletter if you're interested and getting notified if no one even ops in Huh, it's gonna be hard to get them if they can't put in an email Why would they get out their credit card and buy something Well, there's a $5 video or a movie like why would they pay for that if they want even opt in because they're curious So it's like you can start there with an opt-in or follow me if you're interested whatever What has been from your perspective like the the the biggest motivator for somebody to want to purchase a product where It's that's a huge step. I think for any like relationship with an audience just because just because you haven't audience doesn't mean that they're gonna buy your ship. They're gonna pay for one of your products So let's say a lot of people with big following who are broke. Yeah, you know what I mean and people have this expectation or this idea that they're all Love it or not But you you seem like somebody who's put just as much effort if not more effort into The products you create like the monetizing and the look at it as a business and like there's I tell I talk about this with youtubers because there's so many youtubers that that's all they have is just a YouTube channel And they rely solely all of their income on ads and just the monetization button which could be turned off by YouTube at any time and it's like you got to see yourself as an entrepreneur as a business person How can I expand this and use you to be on you know use my audience beyond just YouTube so what which ways have you seen My monetization being the easiest or the the least friction for your audience It's finding the biggest pain. So I I server my audience all the time and say what's the thing? You're struggling with the most right now and then I give you know 10 different options based on what I think They're gonna be struggling with like here's 10 things like Just you know click on the one that you're struggling with the most and if they're like Struggling with Figuring on my goals in my vision. Okay. Well, let me create a program a book a course an event coaching something System around that if they're like I'm looking to I Can't get any sales no one follows me. Okay. Let's create a program on how to create Build an audience so people follow you what are those steps that you need to do So it's just speaking exactly into the pain that people are facing the most and solving someone's problem. That's what it is Solving problems I feel like a lot of this stuff isn't exactly intuitive because our intuition would be I'll make something then sell it or I know best I'm the business of it. We're just here's what I want to do because it's cool to me. Yeah, no It's it's not cool if no one's gonna buy it and so you gotta think about what serves your artistic view point But also serves the audience and that's what I think about like there's a lot of things I can be selling that I could be selling my audience that can make me a ton of money I could sell sneakers or hats or like phone cases. I could sell lots of different stuff But if I'm not interested in it as well then it's not gonna do well But when I'm curious and creative and artistic and excited about something and my audience it serves a pain in my audience Then that's the sweet spot is Bringing my love or something and serving the pain of my audience and bringing it together That's where the magic happens. It's kind of like finding that sweet spot because I know that as as a creative and a filmmaker a Sometimes want to create the thing just because I think it would be cool and like sometimes I think you can do that But you just have to know Man, I'm like money. You're probably not gonna make it. And that's part of your portfolio piece that you show people is like here's something I can do and here's something I'm passionate about cool, but if no one else is interested then you're just serving an audience of one Great. Let's do a couple Instagram questions. I've got questions from Instagram and then we'll wrap up the podcast Let me see. I've actually got a video here Hi Matt first of all thanks for answering my question on the podcast My name's Courtney Stevens, I'm the owner and founder of minimal living limited here in the UK The one thing that I've struggled with over the last year of taken of minimalism Is really this idea of masculinity I grew up in a very masculine part of the UK the one thing I'd ask is Have you guys ever felt like you've struggled to find My or friends based on this and if you don't fit into a particularly category where you don't want to you know go to the Purb and drink alcohol and watch the football. Have you ever found it out to to meet friends Based on that you wrote the book on the mask of masculinity So I feel like this question is perfect for you. Yeah. I've never struggled with like finding male friends I've always been very outgoing and I'm also I'm not just like I'm very friendly and I do a lot of different hobbies and I meet people when I'm doing those hobbies Whether it's sports or salsa dancing or podcasting it's like I'm meeting male friends all the time so I've never struggled with that My advice would be to do the things you love and find other people that do the things Who love the same thing and in that process you have something where you can talk about and connect on But really I think to build a relationship with another man You've got to be willing to put yourself out there first You don't have to be like crying in this vulnerable person in front of them, but You can start to ask you can start to just talk about things like saying you know, man, I'm just really going through Like a struggle in my relationship right now. Have you ever felt like you've been struggling in a relationship before and How do you get through it? You know, it doesn't have to be like this deep dark conversation, but it can just be like Man, I've ever struggled with your parents like gosh my Parents are just constantly on top of me and constantly doing this and it's just like I don't know what to tell them because I care about them Obviously to my parents and I want to be there for them, but how do you navigate that? What have you done? It's just like getting guys to open up a little bit and have these cyber conversations I believe we'll start to build a bond with other men That'll be great friends. I think it's like what we're looking for too. It's depth and not everybody Is either willing or capable of having a Depthful conversation yeah, and like I've definitely I noticed that with some of my friends and that's like fine You can I think I I have many friends who they're just Really great buddies. They're always gonna be some of my best friends, but we're never gonna talk about you know Our our trial I think it's fun and I think also he was like, you know I don't want to be at a pub or sports game It's kind of hard to find friends like that and have those conversations at the pub or sports game or everyone Someone's having a beer. I think it's like getting in different settings getting outside like You know playing you know being in the park or whatever may be or just again doing your hobbies doing the things that you love Not just being in a bar right like following your interests and then if there's other people that are interested in If you're like a surfer goes serving with a buddy and then like When you're walking back on the beach, you know how the conversation as you're putting like you're surfboard up in your cars You know whatever maybe right I got a question here from Lionel Johnson 22 year old auto artist from Chicago I just graduated from the Academy American Academy of art in Chicago and got my bachelor of fine arts in illustration I was recently offered a job as an art teacher in San Francisco But due to finance issues 65 thousand dollars in student loan debt I had to turn down the job at what point do you think it's necessary to take huge risks to further your path So he's got your 65,000 student loan and he got a job offer for what he didn't say what the job offer was But I'm imagining Not enough to not enough to make that that leap in that move. So you're kind of stuck with debt How can you take risks? Yeah, I think you get to be creative, you know, maybe you need to find a job right now that can pay off that debt Where you can also provide for yourself Or you go back and live at home a thousand option for two years and say okay, I'm gonna save money And this is how much I need to save every single month so that in two years I can go on demand thing or you go get the job that is a good job Maybe it's not what you really want but it pays what you name and you commit to yourself that on the weekends I'm doing Mirals and getting paid a side gigs doing murals or fine art for clients and I'm building up my My brand is an artist from Instagram and it's starting to get other paid gigs so that in two years I can replace my income and go freelance on my own. I think it's Not just taking your risk and not having a plan. It's being strategic about it and Also knowing that you know for a couple of years. I was on my sister's couch and I couldn't just leave because I didn't have any money So I wasn't like well, I'm just gonna go take a risk and like moved in New York City and I have this debt I've got no money. I've got no job. I'm gonna figure it out that wouldn't have been smart risk But it was okay. I'm gonna make $500 a month and then a thousand a month and then 2000 and I built up to my goals and when I had enough Then it was just a clear path like let me move to New York City and chase my dream and that's what I did Yeah, I think a big thing that he should be focusing on right now is Getting out of debt and trying to figure out a way to get out of debt I graduated college with $97,000 in student loans So it's and I bought a brand new car Not smart which is yeah, but that's that was my mindset at the time I didn't I wasn't taking responsibility I wasn't willing to look and and identify the problem and Once I started to look in and started getting into like self-help books Like I certainly recommend Dave Ramsey's total money makeover It's a fantastic book and for me it got me to identify the problem and start to realize What kind of freedom I would have if I wasn't in debt and if he didn't have the debt obviously he could You know, maybe he would have gotten the job offer because he wouldn't have had the job But he would have been able to make that leap so Once he's able to to get out of debt I don't think he has to stay at home with his parents for five years or six years But once you start the chip away you build up a little bit of the savings which is what I did I probably paid off like half of my student loans living at home my parents then I was like saved up a security You know a nice little safety stash of money in case things should have a turn for the worst living in New York and then I Continued to pay down my debt and then eventually became debt free and it's like honestly There's like a feeling there like certainly when you pay off that last loan We're like those amazing this yet. I now and and free to do what I want I can move across the country. It's just there's so much more that's open to you and you can actually take more risks once you're in that position Yeah, when you're actually you have to be conservative first And then once you're at that place then you can start to Take those risks and take the leaps and you know take that crazy job offer across the country A couple more here Pedro Hernandez for a beginner in any business what specific training Did you do that you found the most helpful in regards to personal development? I'm thinking about hiring a coach to help change my mindset from an employee to a business owner Being a business owner is really hard and I don't think everyone's cut out for it I think You've got a really wanted and be committed to it because I don't know this statistic, but it's something like 80% of businesses fail within the first three years So if you're willing to go into something and know that you have a Whatever the percentage is a high percentage chance of not succeeding within the first three years and it not working And you need to change your vision and evolve and adapt and innovate Then it may not be for you Maybe you want to be on a team With a big brand who's got a lot of resources that can help you continue to grow in that context So I think it's like just getting clear again not doing something because everyone else is doing it or talking about it or it seems cool But doing it because you really want to do it. That's number one I would say the number one skill that has helped me is Understanding how to generate sales sales is The bloodline of a business and if you don't know how to ask for money or how to generate a sale And you don't have a business you just have an idea or hobby or whatever may be So learning how to sell is one of the greatest skills and Through the art of learning how to sell you've got to learn about understanding people And so really that comes down to communication and enrollment You being a person that people want to be around you being a person that people feel like you care about You being someone that understands how to listen to what people are really saying And then give them the solution to their biggest pain That's been the key for me is learning how to sell you can also have different personality types Right in a in a leadership role in a business role not everybody has the same exact style and I think sometimes we Think of this picture in our mind say of a creative is somebody that's just like you know They're in a room just scattered with papers and they're a genius and they have to make these low and rogue decisions Or like the leader that's super confident inspiring actually I think of Silicon Valley who like the lead dude It's just he gets in front of his like throws up Yeah, throws up everywhere and it's like that's probably what I would do in that situation And it's like not all great leaders are the same they don't have the same kind of charisma or style or presence And I think that's something that's that's comforting But like you said you still got to be able to figure out a way to monetize and make money and make a living and Money doesn't solve every problem in a business, but it solves lots of problems without the money you can't pay your team You can't pay yourself you can't play the range you can't pay the things you have to pay for And again it doesn't solve everything, but it helps build and grow and solve a lot of things So you've got to be able to generate cash If somebody's right now Facing doubt like there they don't know what to do How to push through it. They're just They want to put something out into the world, but they're faced with all these kind of Ideas about how they're not good enough or people are gonna hate it. Are they're gonna say it shitty? What advice would you give them? People are already making fun of you by doing nothing They're going to make fun of you no matter how great it is the thing you do There were people that watched your documentary that said this thing sucks is freaking slow It's dry. It's whatever it is and then there's the other amount of people are like this is exactly what I need right now I think the key is to focus not on the people who leave the negative reviews Which is the hardest thing to do because you fix it on those But to focus on the people you want to support and serve that audience that community those individuals that need this the most and You give your best you learn you're gonna fail It's not gonna be the best it can be and you can get better and you grow into the next thing You know and don't rely on one Piece of work to be your entire life, you know, it's the body of work. It's You putting out one song that does not represent who you are as an artist. It's the collection of songs over 50 songs that you're writing Same thing as a filmmaker, you know one video doesn't define you. It's your body of work, but Some videos can define you as well if they really stand down I think it's a great place to wrap up If people want to see what you're up to now, where should we send? Yeah, Lewis house on instagram or Lewis house.com or school of written spot test. Cool. Thanks for doing this man. Thanks bro Thank you for listening to this week's episode of the ground up show Don't forget to submit your jingle to the get the rock on Matt's podcast jingle competition trademark all rights reserved patent pending You can send your five to seven second jingle to hello at Matt deavela.com and I'm gonna bring all these together. I'm gonna make a YouTube video out of it. I'm gonna go through all the entries And I'm gonna pick the one that I think fits best for the show the one that makes me giggle the loudest You will be announced as the winner of the one the only The get the rock on Matt's podcast jingle competition trademark all rights reserved patent pending Again, send in your jingle to hello at Matt deavela.com and I can't wait to hear from you. Thanks for watching
