# Don't make this mistake.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tTjAAK8YsYk
Subscribe to my podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Get my short weekly emails:  http://mattdavella.com/

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** minimalism, simple living, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, Don't make this mistake., mistake, minimalism mistake, 
**Date:** 2019-04-30

## Transcript
 So last month I decided to wake up at 5 a.m. every day for 30 days. You might have seen the video I did on it. Now I'd woken up this early in the past, but I'd never done it with that much consistency. And I thought it would be nothing but positive benefits. I thought it'd be more productive I'd had more time for my relationships. I would just get more shit done. I thought I'd turn into Superman. It turns out I was super wrong. I made a mistake. And the big mistake that I made was that I was trying to put someone else's formula onto my life. That's not inherently bad. That's the nature of experimenting and trying different things. And sometimes it works out. But when it doesn't, we need to know when to switch up, when to try something different, and when to let these ideas go. There aren't many videos on YouTube of people talking about the benefits of sleeping in. In fact, the exact opposite is true. Go online and you'll see dozens and dozens of videos of people talking about the amazing life-changing benefits of waking up early. Who in their right mind, what kind of idiot would make a video about waking up early? These are some of the things that I've found helped me rise before 6 a.m. Oh, that's right. I would. And there's nothing wrong with the video I made, and there's also nothing wrong with the videos that those other people made about their own experience with waking up early. But if I made one mistake in that video, and it's something that people usually don't think about when reading or watching self-help, it's that I didn't provide context and exceptions. There are always exceptions to the rule, almost always. And you really need to understand the context to know if it's something that you should bring into your life. For example, I'm doing 12, 30-day experiments this year, and I'm doing it for a bunch of different reasons. I want to learn about myself, find potential shortcomings, figure out ways that I can organize my day differently, maybe become even more productive than I am already. But also because it's fun, weird, and I think would make for an interesting video. That's the full context. It's never just one thing. And as much as I'm an advocate for a simple life, sometimes we oversimplify things. It's impossible to read one sentence and fully understand a book. But that's often what we do when we take advice from others, and it's something that I do as well. When I hear that somebody wakes up at 5am every single day without fail, I think. I can't help but think that this person is a productivity God. They must have their life so organized, their priorities set. They must know something that I don't. And yeah, while it might be an indication of discipline, it almost certainly is an indication of discipline. For the most part, the only thing you can tell about this person's life with that knowledge is that they wake up at 5am every morning. Personally, by experimenting with that routine, I found that it wasn't for me. The rigid structure not only prevented me from getting a full night's sleep, it often forced me to sacrifice time with my family, friends, and activities past 8pm. Like a lot of really cool shit happens past 8pm. Comedy shows, nights out with friends, drinks, dodgeball, rave parties. I've never been to a rave party. I found first hand that the biggest productivity tool I have is sleep. And failing to get a full night's sleep completely through off my entire day. During those 30 days, when I was dedicated to waking up at 5am against all odds, even with 9 hours of sleep spread across 2 days, I yawned like an obnoxious asshole. If this challenge brought anything into focus for me, it's the fact that I now understand how important sleep is for me to stay sharp and have sustained energy throughout the day. Not to mention, according to Matthew Walker's book, why we sleep there appear to be two biological ways in which humans do sleep. There are the night owls and the early risers. Suggesting that for early tribes and communities, it was safer to have people awake longer during the day and the night to prevent from outside intruders, like lions and Mormon missionaries. Regardless, today's society often looks at the night owls as lazy and unproductive. Why can't you wake up at 5am like the rest of us high performers? I don't know, maybe ask Darwin, maybe go have a conversation with his dad? But you come across these messages all the time, and if you watch this YouTube channel, you probably get it a lot from me. Advice on how to build habits, they healthy, fine success, but what you often don't hear are the context and disclaimers. Like, hey, this works for me, but it might not work for you. Or try experimenting with this, but if it doesn't work, change things up. Just know for me personally, yeah, there are some things that I've figured out, some things that work really well for my lifestyle. But I'm often changing things up. My workouts change. I try different diets. Often times I wake up early, but sometimes I get pretty drunk and then I have to sleep and make sure you drink responsibly, but also sleep responsibly. So if you need the sleep, get the sleep. Don't feel like you have to be so rigid just because somebody said so in a YouTube video. Someone tweeted at me last week and asked, is being hit by a car while cycling a good excuse for not starting a workout yet? And asking for a friend. And the answer is, of course not. That is a terrible excuse. If you have to hobble to the gym, I don't care what it takes. I'm only kidding. Of course, yeah, that's a great excuse. And I think actually he understands that this is a little bit of a joke. I think he understands that he shouldn't be going to the gym and he shouldn't be working out right now. But I'm afraid that not many people are thinking critically enough. And there are many other exceptions to the rule. And you have to understand for yourself which one's applied to you. You see, nuance is really important. And sometimes when you're trying to tell really concise videos, even like the one I'm making right now, you can lose a bit of the context. Just know that for every topic I cover every video I make, there could be hours of conversation on the subject. And there would be many other points of view that could be right for you. So the best thing that you can do is continue to stay curious, continually ask questions, try things out for yourself. And if it's not working, don't be afraid to let it go. I'm going to admit that. Thanks for watching. If you love nuance, I've decided to make some changes to my podcast. It's now going to be more of a companion to the YouTube channel where I talk with my friends about related topics and get into the weeds of each of them. I just released an episode with Serela Moore about quitting social media. I literally felt like something was hijacking my brain. Subscribe via your favorite podcasting app by searching for the ground up show or going to ground up show.com. Oh, isn't actually going to bed. This is just, I'm just shooting a video here. I wouldn't go to sleep with a camera mounted above my bed or with my pants on. So, thanks for watching.
