# Making Minimalism - Episode 3
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uciHeje-WhI
Take a look behind the scenes of Minimalism. Get exclusive videos at http://www.mattdavella.com.

Creating our film was simple, but not easy. A few years back I joined Josh & Ryan from The Minimalists to travel across the country and interview people about how simple living had changed their lives. It was a long road to get here. In episode 3 we run into some trouble. Two days before our first live screening (in front of a sold out crowd) I decide to recut the entire film. The response isn't exactly what I had hoped for.

Subscribe for more videos on simple living.

Featuring
The Minimalists http://www.theminimalists.com
SPYR:  https://spyr.me/
VVE:  https://vvemusic.bandcamp.com/releases

More from me:
Website:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Podcast:  https://www.mattdavella.com/podcast
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/matthewdavella

Music Credits
Background Hip Hop Beat by BerryDeep
Brittle Rille - Reunited by Kevin MacLeod (http://incompetech.com/)
In Future Bass by OddVision
End of the Line by VVE
Rhodesia by Twin Musicom (http://www.twinmusicom.org/)
Reflections by MK2
About That Oldie by Vibe Tracks

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** making minimalism, minimalism, simple living, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, matt davella, joshua fields millburn, ryan nicodemus, jeff sarris, marla sarris, dave latulippe, how to, behind the scenes, set life, 
**Date:** 2017-03-30

## Transcript
 My first reaction was, no, what is this? No man, no, don't change it! It may be figure-relusional. Alright, I'm definitely like never going to be able to change this film. This is the version we're going to be stuck with. We had over 15 interviews, hundreds of hours of footage, and it was all just sitting there on my hard drive. I had the strongest urge to give up, but I knew I had a team that was counting on me to pull this off. I don't really know how you're going to make a movie out of all this, but good luck. I wasn't editing in a fancy suite with huge monitors and blacked out windows. This was where a majority of the film was cut. In the bedroom of my tiny Hoboken apartment, literally two steps away from my bed. I started pouring over every frame, editing the interviews, and taking notes whenever something struck me as important. Tidonic adaptation essentially means our tendency to become dissatisfied with whatever we have, and it's why lottery winners are miserable. It's why homeowners have three car garages. I had a slab of marble, and I just needed to keep shipping away at it. Once I looked through all the footage, I decided to edit the first two minutes. That's it, just two minutes. You have to start somewhere. We've, as a culture, have lost our minds. Every year the past is there's more stimuli, there's more pressure, there's more options, there's more media, there's more noise noise noise noise. This two minute cut would help us start to develop the tone of the music, which drew a night. It doesn't represent the final product, but at least it was the starting point to say, hey, this is where the direction of where it's going. I think we were both sort of organically working on things at the same time. One of the most valuable lessons I learned from working on this project is that you just have to get started. Put your ass in the chair, open up the project, and start working. You rarely know where the day is going to take you, but you just got to start. The pieces will fall together from there. You just have to trust the process. During this time, I start sending spires and design requests. Hey, we need this. Oh, we're going to do an animated sequence in the film. Let's start on that. All right, let's do that. Everyone has a skill you can be flexible. You might not recognize this graphic. That's because we decided to cut it. Just felt a little bit too playful. We've actually included a few graphics that were more fitting. The first music scratch tracks that I got from drew a night I played from my phone. I was blown away. I know for me that one song that stood out the most was minimum. That was a song that I'd heard and I was like, this is it. This is what our film sounds like. Yeah, I definitely think that was sort of like the anthem for us. And I think we built everything around that song. Listen to the original scratch. From the moment those first piano keys hit, I knew that this song would be the inspiration for the rest of the score. In the final master, months down the road, they would build this song up even. That song to us was like a really emotional one. Really thought provoking. It's I think that's why it resonated with the film. We kind of said a rule early on like we only want like a certain amount of elements no matter what and we don't want to go past that, right? But some songs as they started building, it was so beautiful to kind of pass that limit. Occasionally, it's crazy how many lessons you can learn in making something like this that draw direct parallels with the full message of minimalism in the first place, which is it's not about an arbitrary number. It's about is this thing to literally add value. For us it's something that we were passionate about. I mean, the familiarics in themselves like follow me to the end of a line. There's nothing that we let we behind. The line is kind of like it's tricky unless you actually listen to it because as she says there is nothing we don't leave behind. Yeah. Except for your legacy or relationships, which is like the whole theme of the documentary. When you sent the first cut back, I just remember thinking like, oh wow, okay, like there's a story and then I just remember every cut after that. It just kept getting better and better. The very first version of what we got, comparing that to the final version, there's not, I mean, there's huge difference. We went through draft after draft. V1, V2, V3, we shared notes and slowly over time, we refined it. V4, V5, V6. We conducted more interviews. I drove down at DC to speak with Jay Austin. We flew out to LA to interview Sam Harris. I spoke with Graham Hill and David Freedlander about their micro apartments, Dan Harris of ABC News about meditation, the fashion and sustainability advocate Shannon Whitehead. Eventually after an endless amount of versions, we had a movie that we were all happy with. We decided to get this in front of an audience and screen it at MissFitCon, the gathering of inspiring individuals who are following unconventional paths. The theater would be sold out. The turning point was the far-go incident as I now like to call it. Oh yes. As you can see from their reactions, this story is a little bit painful, at least for me. It was the Friday before our screening and I gave Josh a call. I told him that for the last month I'd been secretly recoding the film and I'd put together a better version that I wanted to debut that weekend. You were so excited when you called me. I'm like, oh man, I know it's gotten better every time, so it must be even better now. So we go watch it in this hotel room. My first reaction was, no, what is this? No man, no, don't change it. It made me think you were delusional. Man has gotten crazy. Like from all the editing, there's mercury in his computer, something has happened. It was just sort of reworked in a way that we didn't feel the same connection to it. And it's not because that cut was bad. Because that cut was fine. It's just what you had before was such a, it was so much better. It didn't really go as well as I'd hoped. And then we had a, there was somewhere of a Skype intervention. I felt bad for you being the only one not in the room with us. I don't think like, you know, every single artist could be told by seven, nine people that hey, like, no, this is not cool. Yeah, it was, it was still hard. Like in the moment, it was, it was very difficult to hear that. This is going to sound insane, but secretly, I wanted the film to bomb the next day to prove that I was right. But this is what happens next. And we screened that version at Fargo. And there's a fucking standing ovation. And then I was like, all right, I'm definitely like never going to be able to change this film. This is the version we're going to be stuck with. I think the reason this version sucked is because I was trying to develop some kind of formula for the documentary. I was doubting myself. So I deconstructed other acclaimed documentaries and tried to match ours to it. It just didn't work. I needed to make this my own. So we take this little film that I hate and everyone else loves and submit it to film festivals. And we've gotten to every single one, con, south by south west, sunday, the list goes on and okay, that's not true. All the major film festivals rejected us. We submitted to a lot of festivals. We got into some not many good ones. I knew that this movie could be better. Luckily after the festivals, the rest of the team realized that we had missed something. Something that was vitally important. On the next episode of making minimalism, we try to capture what we had missed. It doesn't resonate with someone, it doesn't resonate with them. But we wanted to make sure that we actually got them to the message. We've got a theatrical release deadline coming up soon. And I'm starting to wonder if the mercury actually is leaking from my computer. Luckily I'm not the only one. If I think that is maybe I'm the only original too. To see the next episode and to watch more videos on simple living, go to my website, matdeevella.com.
