# Ground Up 003 - How to Get New Clients
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uePUjmja0nw
http://www.groundupshow.com

It's Ground Up Episode 3. This one is a little different. I was in a rush today and completely jet-lagged so it's audio-only. Ground Up is brought to you by me. Not enough people watch this to have sponsors yet. Soon you'll look back at these early videos and think, "Wow. This is where it all start." Until then...

More from me: https://www.mattdavella.com/subscribe

Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Matt-DAvella-984498801683630/

This is all the gear that made this episode possible:
Audio:  Shure SM7B, Zoom H6 & Cloudlifter
**Keywords:** film, filmmaking, how to, podcast, ground up, ground, up, start, start up, 
**Date:** 2017-02-23

## Transcript
 I woke up at 1.30 pm today, it's going to make me sound like a piece of shit, but there is an excuse, I have a good excuse, I just got back from Australia, it was like a 25, 26 hour flight. My schedule is still a little bit screwed up, got the bed at like 3.34 am. I've come to realize at least doing this twice that there's not much you can do about jet lag. You can try to change your clocks instead of early, but at the end of the day, no matter what, your body is going to feel like it's not the correct time at this point I'm pushing through. Anyway, ground up episode 3, let's go. Alright, so today I want to talk about how to get clients. This is by far the question that I get most from people who are just curious about what I do and how I'm able to run my business as a freelancer. How do I get new clients? And also people who are just getting started out, I think that's probably one of the biggest things, you know, obviously before you can have a business, you need to have clients. And I think a lot of people suspect that advertising might be involved that you might need to like market your services in some way, but and I can only speak for myself. This is what has worked for me. I've never advertised. Technically, I did advertise once. Back when I was doing weddings, I was just getting started out. And so I was doing weddings for a very cheap, like pretty much like $1,000 for a wedding. It was just me. I would go out, film the whole day and edit. And you know, when you're just going to start it out, $1,000 for 10 hour a day, plus a couple weeks of editing is amazing. But when I was just getting started out, I had this idea. My brother helped me out with it. So I said, all right, let me do a free wedding film give away. And that's how I market it and basically you have to just give me your email address and then you are submitted to win a free wedding film. And I got I think about maybe 50 to 80 people submit for this free wedding film. I did the kind of automatic drawing and it happened to be somebody I went to high school with won it. And then the idea was like, hey, let me give a 15% off your next wedding film to everybody who didn't win the giveaway. And the fucked up thing about it and which backfired entirely is that not only did I not get any new clients from this, nobody booked and partook in that offer. One of the people that submitted for the free wedding film was already a client where they had agreed to make a wedding film with me. I got an email from them and they said, hey, by the way, I just got this 15% off. Can I use this towards the wedding that we already had booked. And I was like, you know, so basically I ended up losing 15% of the revenue that I would have made from a wedding sale I already had because I was trying to be clever and trying to try to make this advertising and marketing strategy work. It didn't. And you know what? I'm sure that there's many ways in which advertising and marketing can work for you. And I'm sure you can read like plenty of books and podcasts and all that stuff about how to do it. But that's not where we're working for me. What worked for me was really building a reputation. You know, I started to get a little bit work and just took whatever I could get. I did work for very cheap $100 to film for 10 hours. You know, which to me, it was great because I was like, I could work at a coffee shop or I could do something. I love and make $10 and how we're doing that. So that ended up working out for me. And really in terms of getting new clients, it's snowballed from the beginning. From the first one to five clients I was able to get. They were able to recommend me other people saw my work from that and then it built. It built very slow. It's a small snowball. The hill, the mountain that this snowball is rolling down, isn't very steep. And it takes a while to build up those clients over time. But it does work as long as you are consistently delivering. You have to be relentless about delivering and making your clients happy. Like the number one thing for me that was more important than money, more important than even the craft and the art of what I was doing was to deliver from my clients to make them happy. And maybe that's just part of my personality is that it could be a flaw is that I want to please people and make them happy. But in terms of a business perspective, there is nothing more important than that. So oftentimes now, like I'll give two to three revisions per video with a project with a new client. And I will sometimes say if we're just not hitting it, we're not nailing it and the client's not happy. I'm not going to charge them extra to do one to three additional revisions to tweak it to change it to make sure that they're entirely happy. I'm not going to try to nickel and time a client just to make a few extra bucks. It's not worth it to me. There's three very important ways that you can build a reputation that clients will recommend you. Number one is just be awesome to work with. Be professional. You have to just be incredibly responsive. You have to be a joy to work with. Be fine. And at the same time, don't be too casual. Like you need some element of professionalism. You need to be able to be prompted with them and let them know how this relationship is going to work out. Number two is deliver early. I can't underestimate this enough. That's why you should give yourself a little bit of extra time. So I might say, you know, what this video is going to might take me three to four days to go from beginning to end in post production. But I'm going to say two to three weeks. I'm going to make sure that we have as much time as possible to be able to complete this project otherwise the client isn't going to be happy. So you have to manage their expectations a lot. Number three is communicate effectively and I kind of touched on this in point one. But you have to communicate with your client. The only times that I've ever had problems with clients has been when I when I didn't communicate. I remember I did this shoot with Red Bull early on when I just started shooting. Well, it was technically a marketing agency that had Red Bull had hired. You know, I shot the video and like I just got into 5D Mark 2 and I was like super happy. Super excited about what I had shot and knew that the quality was better than anything that I'd ever shot before. At the end of the shoot, I was like, oh, by the way, do you need anybody to edit this because I could edit it myself. I could turn it around pretty quickly for you and they said, yeah, that'd be amazing. We'd love for you to edit it for us. We'll be in touch. So I took the footage back. So I was planning on listen, I'm going to go above and beyond. I'm going to get this video finished within a week. I'm going to get this done by Friday. The shoot was on a Monday. I'm saying, I'm going to knock this out and finish it by Friday. You know what, if it takes a little bit longer, that's fine, but it's still going to look amazing. Like a day later, I went up to my cabin with my parents. It's like up in the middle of the woods. There's no Wi-Fi. There's no service. And I was like, oh, I'll work on it up here. I can take a little break for a couple days. I'll come back and then I'll send it to them and they'll be incredibly happy. Well, I'm off the grid. I think I'd send him an email. I'll say, hey, by the way, I'm going to be off the grid for the next two days. But I'll be back and then we'll finish up the project as soon as I get back. And then I get back from the cabin and I have all these emails and I have all these phone calls from this guy from this marketing agency. That's just pissed. And he's like screaming on the phone. He's saying how they need this project done by Thursday or it's not even worth it or there's no reason for us to even make this video. And he's just going off and I'm like, hopefully shit. Like I thought I was ahead of the ball. I thought I was going to be killing it and crushing it with this project. And then I was going to have a client for life. And said, I never worked with them again. That was the end of our working relationship. Because yes, okay, I think you could look at this and say, you know what? This is his fault because he did not communicate the deadline. He should have said, hey, we need this video done by Friday. If it's really that urgent, of course, he should have been the one to do that. But what I've learned is no matter what no matter who's followed it really is, you have to blame yourself. I could have completely avoid this situation had a client for life if I had just communicated and asked him a few questions. Hey, when do you need this done by boom literally that entire conflict that entire problem is out the window? And we don't have to worry about it anymore. But now I've completely screwed myself up. So communicate effectively and ask questions very early on and the more and more you do this, the more you know the three to five questions that you have to ask on every single project. From that point that problem never had another problem with communicating about deadlines again. So in a lot of ways, this is why I say I think it's important to have mentors because I go through this problem, this issue. Now, just hearing this loan, if you can implement that advice, it's going to go a long way and you're probably going to alleviate 90% of the trouble that I had gone through myself. Building up a reputation, getting new clients isn't simple. But once you start to get those first few clients and you deliver and you're amazing to work with, you deliver early, you communicate properly. These people are going to love you and they are going to want to work with you again, first of all, and they're going to want to recommend you to new people and new clients to work with. And as long as you can build that reputation and keep moving forward, no matter how small that snowball starts to accumulate, you're going to build up a client base. That's it. We'll be back with episode four next week. Thanks for tuning in. See ya. If you like this podcast, please subscribe on YouTube. Got the ground up show.
