# I stopped using an alarm clock and it changed everything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=unSlnMWUzr4
My YouTube course closes 11/19 at 11pm EST! Enroll here… https://slowgrowth.com/youtube

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 Credits
Directed by Matt D'Avella
Edited by Zach Mayfield & Matt D’Avella
Design & Animation by Spencer Torok
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, 
**Date:** 2022-11-16

## Transcript
 Hey there, just a quick announcement to let you know that my YouTube course is closing its enrollment in just two days after uploading this video And so if you want to learn all of these strategies, tools and mindsets that I use to make great videos and to get more views on YouTube with integrity Go to slowgrowth.com slash YouTube to learn more again. You've got just two days from the time I upload to check it out. Hope to see you there One year ago, I decided to stop using my alarm clock and it changed everything. I've been an early riser for the past 10 years or so and for the past decade I've almost always started my day with the sound of Is it any wonder that I struggle with anxiety? Of course you can do your best to flick through the various options on your phone But is there really an alarm that doesn't make you want to throw your phone through the drywall? So it wasn't just the gutterall sound of the alarm ringing each morning. They got me to question how I wake up I really stop using an alarm clock out of necessity last year. I spent six months in Australia Oh, can I be Australia mate now? I don't know if you're familiar, but Australia is really far from the US Specifically from the small team that I work with on the east coast and that makes for a brutal time difference when I was there 9 a.m. in Sydney was 7 p.m. in New York That meant that I often had to wake up at 5.30 a.m. just to get on a single phone call my hair I gotta say is looking really good on the days that I had to wake up early my alarm clock was obviously Required, but for the other five to six days every week I decided not to set an alarm at all And the habit stuck even now that I'm back in the US now instead of waking up to that god awful sound of the alarm ringing I wake up to people yelling on the streets of Philadelphia Come on in and talk So I've noticed a few positive changes since killing my alarm clock every morning First I've been getting a full eight hours of sleep each night here You can see what my sleep has looked like for the past month I've been tracking my sleep for the past 30 days and I've been consistently getting nine hours in bed In eight hours of sleep the time that I get to bed each night varies depending on the day of the week Whether or not I have plans and if Natalie is working late It's crazy how inconsistent my schedule has become so instead of forcing myself to wake up early every morning I let my body tell me when I'm ready to wake up every night I try to get to bed at the same time But when there are inconsistencies with my schedule Naturally they're gonna be a days when I go to bed really late and so if I get to bed at 12 a.m. or 1 a.m. I'm not gonna just wake up early you for the hell of it. I'm gonna sleep in and Let my body make that decision for me for me for me this strikes the perfect balance of consistency and flexibility In the past I've tried to keep a really rigid sleep schedule one month I even tried to wake up at 5 a.m. every morning that one didn't go so well What I've learned is that neglecting sleep to be productive is one of the least productive things you can do So I think the thing that surprised me the most is the realization that I don't need an alarm clock to wake up early. I need a full night's sleep to wake up early If you look at my sleep patterns over the past month, I still typically wake up around 7 a.m. each morning A lot of people would naturally assume if you're not setting an alarm that you're not going to be waking up early You'll sleep in until 11 12 maybe one But for me that definitely wasn't true. I'm waking up pretty consistently at around 7 a.m. with no alarms I don't think I ever sleep in past nine if I'm being honest and there are mornings that I wake up a little bit earlier But if you take a look at it There are really at least over the past month. There is quite a strong trend for waking up right around 6.30 or 7 a.m. each morning From my personal experience if I don't have commitments in the morning and I wake up tired I will hit the snooze button over and over again or at least until I hear my wife aggressively sigh next to me Which brings me to my next point this new routine of mine hasn't just been good to me It's also made someone else very happy. So this was the part of the video where I was supposed to interview Natalie But she got sick while I was making it so So that did you like it when I used my alarm clock every morning? No, it didn't give you much sleep did it now Sounds rough. No, well, come eat your honest take look listen right like I'm not gonna sit here and pretend like it was easy because it wasn't right Like who needs to wake up at 5 a.m. like there's some kind of productivity guru But it's not bad anymore right now Long story short, Nat is a really light sleeper and now that I don't use an alarm clock every morning I don't wake her up as often especially when I'm hitting the snooze button three times in a row So I guess you could say that she's a lot happier now fucking a riot now this works for me for a few different reasons One I don't have to consistently wake up early for meetings Two I have a really flexible schedule that I can set myself probably the biggest thing That I need to mention is that I really do have a greater purpose that drives me to get out of bed every morning When I wake up every morning, I'm genuinely excited about the day I'm excited about my work. I'm driven. I have that task list that I created the night before So there is no question about the things that I want to get done and so I think if you're trying to do this for yourself That is super important everybody has their own schedules and needs to find what works for themselves But I have found that being more flexible not setting an alarm clock has truly changed my day to day But that's not to say that I'll never wake up early again or I'll never use an alarm clock When I'm back in Sydney, I'm definitely gonna need to use it a couple of days a week And when I have early commitments and engagements that can't be moved I'm not gonna be an idiot and leave it up to chance. I'll set 12 alarms on my phone like a normal person But whenever I can from here on out for as long as I can, I'm not gonna set my alarm I mean look listen right like do I want to be in your video? No, I don't. I'd rather be at the servo. I'd rather get a couple of sausage sizzles right and like just eat those go over to the bottle And then just fill up a couple of skis right head over to the beach and just have a good time We never have a good time anymore working and working and I would love it if you could be in my video Not like not can you please be in my video like oh I can't believe I married a youtuber no
