# You Have Two Choices...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uPjIUDJQmas
Get my podcast... http://groundupshow.com

In this video I take a look at the struggles we face to bring our creations to the world. Whether you're a creative or not you will be faced with tough/negative feedback. Terrence Cunningham helps me break down the two choices we have when faced with 

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** create, creator, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, terrence cunningham, the voice, nbc, behind the scenes, creative, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, music, singing, terrence, team terrence, 
**Date:** 2018-06-18

## Transcript
 When I think back to when I first started to make original films and put them out into the world I Was absolutely terrified. What would people think of me? Would they like the videos? Would my friends make fun of me? Hey guys, what's going on? My name is Matthew Vella, and this is my new YouTube channel I published each video with my eyes closed hoping for the best, but expecting the absolute worst And what I came to find out was that the reaction was in different People really didn't care Which was a good thing because it allowed me to just keep creating keep putting out their keep experimenting Keep trying different things, but then they're did come up point where things started to click and people started to watch my videos And I started to get some feedback Particularly I got some negative feedback. I got people Either twisting my words, telling me that I'm an idiot anything you can think of you will get those comments especially on YouTube And the good news was that I was prepared for it I had been a filmmaker and a creator for over 10 years delivering videos to clients and Getting every level of feedback that you could possibly get from completely thrilled to indifferent or Completely not satisfied or not happy with the particular project and knowing what to do in those situations Knowing that coming from a place of being in my ego and being upset and blaming somebody else isn't going to help anybody So I'll get these negative comments and they wouldn't affect me as much especially not as much as I thought they would I was able to read them and push them to the side and continue on with the Conversation or the videos that I was making I didn't let it stop me, but If I had given in to those early doubts if I'd given in to the worries that I had when I first started out as a filmmaker Then I would never have been able to get to the place where I am today where it really doesn't affect me as much I have a chance to sit down with Terence Cunningham to talk about music life and how to deal with criticism Terence is most recently known for appearing on NBC's the voice Where he completely blew away the judges as well as the audience. It's still One of the greatest moments of my life people at the apex of their careers so to speak Say in so many ways to litify which you only dream to be true about yourself And when I talked with him on my podcast he broke it down pretty simply there are only two ways That you can look at feedback If anything man, it's I think it's it's a dualistic Ideal I think either You can use that and it makes you more fearless to know that if we can get over the fact that everyone does may not like something There's nothing that you won't be able to do so it's either that aspect of it where people may hate it And I don't care or it's going to consume you those are really your only two options because if you live your life Especially being creators because we live our life in a lot of ways Continue to point the affirmations of other people because of no one buys our product How do we live and it doesn't mean that it's good or bad but We live solely off of what other people think of what we did which is You know, which is a hard thing the music and film and Art and you know all those aspects of other people don't like it. We're not working for some in an office for someone else There's like, well, yeah, you did a good job here to check but we put our lives Out for the public to judge and we're on billboard and they're like Oh, they love it Yeah, you spend like three years working out Yeah, I'm like Yeah, is that right so I mean, what do you do with that so again? I think the idea is to Know within yourself that it's good that you put in the work probably the heart of what I wanted to get out of this Conversation is like how do we know what art to create what we truly want to say? Versus how people are reacting and making money as an artist. Yeah, and I think a lot of people struggle with that Because it's very easy to give that advice and say screw up people say Create what you want to create put it out in the world and I do think there's a Large part of that that's true, but then there's also the part where it's like hey, you know I got to pay the bills. I need to make a living doing this first Then we can get crazy Yeah, you know, I mean how do you find that balance of like creating art and making money? I firmly believe man that if Your intention is sound. I think there's a log Dharma that says if your intention is sound and things will come to your aid I think artists that live unempolegetically are the most successful When you consider You know Boschia type of art and things Actually, it was a success, you know that really Deagant to bother him because this is how do I make how do I make a million dollar painting? I don't know how to do that. I can paint obviously this stuff is amazing But the pressure of satisfying the masses. I think Is what's consuming? Because I think if you're not careful you're you're tend to pander and I think once you begin to pander It starts to affect the quality of your work What about to do this because this is what people may like and my understanding I think if you have the core following that follow you from the beginning when you lived Uncompromisingly I think that is the best type of art So that's it criticism and negative feedback is either going to completely destroy you Or it's gonna leave you totally fearless The choice is completely up to you. You have total control over how you respond and how you deal with it. If you want to see this episode of the ground up show as well as others go to groundupshow.com In the comment section, I love to hear from you and what ways do you deal with feedback and what ways have you over Come it to create some meaningful content. Thank you guys for watching and I'll see you next time
