# The New Cold Call
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UT9GQmZHm9o
http://www.groundupshow.com

Photographer Dylan Schwartz talks with Matt D’Avella about how Instagram direct messages has changed his business.

Watch the full episode at http://www.mattdavella.com/046
Follow Dylan on Instagram: https://goo.gl/BTB79c

Thanks for watching! Please leave a review on iTunes if you got some value out of the show: https://goo.gl/c4Pvnv
**Keywords:** ground up, the ground up show, podcast, audience, influencer, dylan schwartz, instagram, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, interview, conversation, self-help, how to, 
**Date:** 2018-02-16

## Transcript
 Now that you've branched off to start your own agency, how do individuals and very small startup agencies compete with the big guys? I don't think there's ever been a better time to compete with the big guys. I think the media landscape is so sort of fragmented right now and it's changing so quickly. I think you have such an advantage if you're a, if you're small and then be if you really like are flexible and are staying current and can adapt and change as the landscape changes. Because big companies and big agencies, they work on annual, they sort of at the beginning of the year, they figure out a plan for the next calendar year and guess what? By halfway through that calendar year, the media landscape is completely changed and they have to figure out how to do things differently. So they're sort of this built-in rigidity to the big agency. So as a small company and small agency, you have the ability to change on the dime. And so I think you can, you know, it's an incredible time to be in that space because clients really need that and I think brands are looking for partners that can do things at their big agencies can. I think they'll always be big agencies and I think big companies need a big agency to kind of feel comfortable working with. They can't always rely on a bunch of small companies. They don't really have the resources to manage all those vendors. But I think for the right projects, I think there's going to be more and more opportunity I think for smaller independent creatives to just work directly with brands. Whether it's social media or not. How do you even get into this space? So you obviously have come from the industry and then once you, you're still in it, but you're leaving to start your own thing. How do you build up a client list and start to actually get paid to make this creative? Sure. I mean, a lot of it is just, you know, I mean, for me personally, you know, I've been working in the industry in Los Angeles specifically for like the last 15 or so years and so, you know, just a lot of relationships that I've built over the years, clients that I've worked with, colleagues that I work with that are now a company's. But honestly, I feel like Instagram is an amazing business development tool. I have, I've been having an amazing lock just like DMing brands directly on Instagram, which sounds crazy, but like, especially if you have a following and, you know, it's an incredible way to connect with someone because what you're doing is you're connecting to the person at the company who actually manages their social. You know, you're going to write to the person who sort of doing their day to day. And yeah, and from your experience, these aren't just interns that are posting the stuff. These are the people that are actually working with the brand to develop this stuff. Sure. Sure. I mean, whether or not it's like an intern or, you know, maybe not necessarily like the CMO who's posting, there's, you know, generally they have a process now and a way to like have that communication get to the right person. So I would, I would think like, you know, if you're trying to sort of create you know, a company or just sort of create content for brands and you use Instagram and Instagram a sort of your, you know, your primary platform for yourself. I think there's, there's no better way, like forget about emails, forget about going to conferences, like to DM them. It's incredible the response you can get. Wow, I never even thought of that. That's such a great advice because not only like think about if you compare the two of them in an email, first of all you send this cold email out, you probably have a little bit more space to write what you want to write, but then you also have to include links to your work that they have to click through to, and you know, it's just a very sticky situation and also you're, you're filled up with all these other people who are messaging them to the same thing in Instagram DM. I guarantee it's, that doesn't sound like a very common approach. Like I guarantee most of the people are like, hey, I love this thing or whatever, but it's not people that are trying to, you know, make a connection there potentially to work for that. But then it's so much easier to click through to your work. Then like your, especially when you have a beautifully curated page like yours, it's, it's your work. It stands for itself. And then if you have a following on top of that, even better. It adds cloud. It gives you an element of legit message. Yeah. It's got to be so much, so much better than just it is. It is. And I mean, for context too, like this, the company I founded kissed, I founded it back in June. I originally founded it back in 2006. And back then, I did it originally for about three years and it was all focused on digital back then. We did all sorts of websites and digital campaigns, digital content. And just the difference, like back then, this is sort of the pre-social media era, the process of finding new clients now is I find so much easier and so much sort of like it's such a more fluid experience right now. And I think a lot of that just has to do with, with Instagram and sort of integrating social not just like the work we're making, but also into like how we actually go about finding new clients and finding it work.
