# Ground Up 046 - Taking Down Goliath w/ Dylan Schwartz
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUr8Q9aXyAY
http://www.groundupshow.com

How to grow your audience through careful curation, the intricacies of Instagram & competing with large agencies.

Dylan Schwartz is a photographer & owner of the digital agency Kissd. After years of working for large creative agencies he decided to take start something of his own. Instagram has become a critical part of his success.

In our conversation we talk about the intricacies of creating content for Instagram, how he uses direct messages to get new clients & catching trends.

Dylan's Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/dylan.schwartz/
Dylan's Agency: https://www.kissd.com

Watch this episode:  mattdavella.com/043
Exclusive content:  groundupshow.com

Thanks for listening! If you've got a minute I'd really appreciate a rating on iTunes.
**Keywords:** dylan schwartz, instagram, photography, ad agency, compete, film, filmmaking, the ground up show, ground up, podcast, interview, self-help, how to, talk, conversation, discussion, photos, feed, post, create a great instagram feed, gain followers, learn, minimalism, simple living, 
**Date:** 2018-02-14

## Transcript
 I don't think there's ever been a better time to compete with the big guys. I think, you know, the media landscape is so sort of fragmented right now and it's changing so quickly. I think you have such an advantage if you're A if you're small and then B if you really like are flexible and are staying current and can adapt and change as the landscape changes. Dylan Schwartz is a photographer and owner of the digital ad agency kissed. Between growing his audience using direct messages to get perspective clients, Instagram has become a critical part of his success. Dylan and I talk about the intricacies of creating content for different platforms, how to compete with massive agencies and his one rule for creating a killer Instagram feed. Dylan and I share a lot in common. We both come from this world of self starters creating your own, whether it be a small video production company or an agency, that idea of competing with these big companies and these well established agencies is at the heart of this conversation and it's one that is very close to my heart as well. So let's do some housekeeping before we get to this podcast. Have you gotten some value out of the ground up show? Do you like this podcast? If so, I'd love it to to ask you to give a quick rating. So ratings help to promote the visibility of the show. It helps to get the word out there. I really want to keep this podcast 100% advertisement free because advertisements are the worst thing that the world has ever come up with. And I do not want to subject you to that. But I'm looking to grow this podcast and hopefully help even more people and get these stories in front of more ears and eyes. So if you could leave me a quick rating on iTunes, that would be a huge help. One more thing here, I am going to start taking questions from the audience. So if you yourself have a question about your journey and about things that you're struggling with, maybe questions that I haven't yet answered on the show, please send me a video of your question. Get as detailed and specific as you want, film it on your phone, email it to hello at matdivala.com and I will start bringing those questions on the show. Like I said, as detailed and specific as you want, but just try to keep them under two minutes for the sake of my sanity and make sure I can get to all of them. Alright, this podcast is a good one. Enjoy. This is Dylan Schwartz. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passion. My name is Matdivala and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. Do you turn off notifications on your phone as well or do you think about it? Yeah. Usually a very few apps that I allow to actually get notifications that turn on most of all them off manually. Yeah, me too. I like the only thing really a phone call in text. I don't like see those as notifications, but you could turn them off, though I'm not that popular. I'm not getting asked what every day. My phone calls and text messages. But yeah, I've been trying to get better at that and lately I've been more mindful about my media consumption and social media conversation. Because you want to make time to create. True. I can't just consume. Exactly. As much as it gives you inspiration. Right. Right. It's not always a good thing. True. Well, anyway, I guess we just started the show. Thanks for being here. Thanks for being on the show. Thanks for having me. Has your day gone so far? Good. It's gone really good. You've been pretty busy lately. Yeah, this last week has been incredibly busy. I think I pretty much stayed up all night working on it at it. Oh yeah. So I feel and feel pretty good right now. Yeah. It's fun every once in a while. To pull the late nights. Yeah. I don't think I've done. Oh man, when I started out, I did the all nighters. Where it's probably my own doing, my own demise, where I set a deadline for 6 AM. Right. But I've also done like overnight shoots with a B-box, where they want the overnight edit. Oh wow. So I get the footage at 12 AM and I have to cut it and get it done by 8 AM. Oh, that's right. Which is. It's really rough. Hopefully pay for that. Yeah, they do. They do. I was like, I'm not doing it unless you give me twice the rate that you were planning. I'm giving it. And I did that for a while and then eventually slow down just because, you know, as you get more work, eventually you value sleep over getting that project. Yeah. So I've got to learn sometimes to say no. Yeah. So I'm going to give you an introduction before the show. But I would love it if you could tell me in your own words what you do and what you've been up to lately. Sure. When it's on short, I have a lot of job titles I call myself. But lately I've just simply calling myself an artist because it's probably the single one word I can use to get close to describing what I'm doing. I have a background as a creative director and advertising industry. But more recently I've been focused on creating photography video and just sort of focusing on social media in general. I was taking a look at a lot of your work, which is amazing. Thank you. You've been doing it for a little while. It looked like you got started out in the agency world. Exactly. Yeah. How did you first get into it? Is that something that you knew that you wanted to do? Yeah. And I'm guessing you went to college for it. I did. Actually went to art high school originally. It's been sort of a long journey started. I mean, I can trace it back all the way to, I don't know if you're David Lynch fan. But when the original Twin Peaks came on and wasn't 1990 or something like that, I was three years old. Three years old. Okay. So I think about ten years older than you think. Yeah. But yeah. Super inspired me. And I don't know what it was about it. It was back then obviously it was a huge outlier for television. And it looked like nothing else I'd ever seen. And it just really inspired me. That's sort of when I decided I wanted to be an artist. And from that point, I sort of left my public high school. I sort of went without telling my parents and applied to an art high school in Chicago, which is where I was living at the time. I got into that art high school. So I spent my sort of junior and senior in high school doing some initial photography, painting, sculpture, just sort of figuring out what I want to do. They don't want to the artist to just Chicago. And that school sort of like, what's interesting about is you don't have to pick a major. You sort of can dabble in all sorts of stuff. And I feel like that was my major was sort of, you know, doing everything and being really curious. And you know, I feel like I'm always sort of, I've never wanted to just call myself on a thing. I've never wanted to be a photographer or be a painter. I was just sort of inspired to like learn new things and apply sort of my static and my perspective to write you different fields. And so that's what I've been doing. But quickly after school, I sort of graduated from college right when the dot com, the original dot com, boom, this happening. And there was a huge need for obviously for designers or anyone that, you know, understood technology and could actually make websites and stuff. And so that sort of got how I got into the advertising world, which is, you know, it's really young at the point. I think it was like 21 or 22 or something when I had my first job. And so from that point on, it was basically working in, when from design firms, to working in interactive agencies to advertising eventually. And then about the last 10 years, to see actually more than that have been about, I've been LA for about 15, 16 years now, has been basically all in advertising. And more specifically in sort of the digital part of advertising. Yeah, I mean, it seems like when you were in college and when you graduated, there couldn't have been these small boutiques. And like when I say small boutiques, I mean, like one or two people, kind of solo prannours who go out there and can market and create for these big brands because, well, first of all, you couldn't do it because, you know, the technology wasn't there. We were just talking about these cameras beforehand. And, you know, DSLR cameras obviously didn't exist. The editing systems to cut together these kind of videos were insanely expensive, like $10-20,000. Yeah. So that was kind of the only path if you were creative person. Yeah. You had to work with an ad agency, right? Absolutely. Yeah, there was a very different world back then. I mean, I remember my, I had an internship in I was in college. It was at this company called H Gun Labs. I don't think they're around anymore, but it was, it was a small production house. And basically, it's the equivalent of what's happening now. Where was it? You know, two guys that had graduated from the, from school I went to and they started making music videos. And that's about this closest you got was a small company that was just really creatively focused and making cool music videos. That was kind of the only real thing to apply. Like, you know, if you wanted to be really creative in the BDR, it's like that was kind of the only thing to do in a way. Yeah. But yeah, man, the world is really changed. And it's just like, it's like a playground now. It's amazing. Yeah, it is. It opens up so many opportunities. Yeah. It brings on lots and lots of competition. Mm-hmm. So you have to deliver. And you have to still build a reputation. I think there's still a lot of things that you have to do that that worked in, say, a big agency world. Yeah. How did you evolve in that agency world? And I think one of the most difficult things, at least from my perspective, would probably be to get all these different skills. Like you said, you, you have all these titles for yourself, photographer, art director, whatever it is. But now we can kind of do that. And we can, we can car ourselves a creative director. We can car ourselves a website designer, because we can actually go out and build these things or do it ourselves. But at the time, I feel like you couldn't. So, so how did you develop within that structure? Yeah, I think I, you know, I've always, whether it's professionally a person like, A, I've always been really interested in technology. Um, and that's always led me to really be interested with, um, I guess sort of the intersection of like art and technology. And, and so basically, like, I've always trying to focus on what is available today, or what is possible today that wasn't possible yesterday. Right, like, this camera just came out. What featured is this new camera have and what will that new feature allow me to create that I couldn't create without this camera? Maybe it's something really small, some tiny feature that's not a huge deal, but if you start thinking about it and applying it to creative ideas, there's usually something that didn't enable some new thing that you can do that you couldn't do before. And so I'm trying to always kind of find that and focus on that. Has there been anything like that recently that you could point to that was like, Yeah. That's, that's creative. Because I think that that element is probably hard to, um, pick first of all, it's hard to find those things. Yeah. And then very quickly somebody else is going to find it and do something really cool with it. Sure. And then all of a sudden it's the novelty will wear. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, part of, yeah. One thing I did recently for Sony was a project using their brand new camera just came out called the RX0. And the camera, you know, it's unique for a few reasons, but one is, it's sort of like, you know, I guess people would compare it to GoPro about size, but it's got sort of much higher image quality than you would get in GoPro, because they've crammed us larger image sensor in there. And so what I created out of it was essentially, um, the sort of I called them three-dimensional portraits, um, and essentially if, you know, you're familiar with the effect from the matrix that bullet time effect where you take a bunch of cameras and you expose them all at the same time and then you sort of use those stills to kind of create motion. Definitely not the first person ever done that. It's done a lot, but I thought what was interesting was that it could be done in sort of a simpler way than a severed one before. Um, and for basically a smaller budget and I quicker turn around and it's just made that technique which is really complicated in the past maybe just a little bit easier. And so that, I think that's one example. Yeah, dude, I remember that in the matrix. I was, I think it was the scene where everybody was a holy shit. Yeah, because it was a slow motion too, the bullets. Yeah. Yeah. God, that movie was, I remember seeing that. I was young, I was maybe early high school to like middle school when it came out, but my brother and I watched it late one night. And this was after like the hype was out just because like, we didn't, I mean, I come from a big family. Uh, we had seven kids in our family. So we didn't go out to the movies very often. Yeah. Days out in nights out weren't very frequent. So I remember we got it like on VHS tape and played it like 11, 12 at night. And then just losing our minds. I'm pretty sure we watched it again right after we finished it because we were just like, if the movie is like that, they just open up your, your mind and get you to think a little bit differently about the world. Yeah, that's amazing. If you look back and how important that movie was it really changed like filmmaking in a way, especially in the sort of the realm of the big budget film. I think it, you know, all the films that came after there's so many, so many were influenced by that. Yeah. It definitely was I think a tipping point for science fiction films. Yeah. Yeah. So how did you start to move forward in the agency world? And like, how did your career progress? Because I know you got the opportunity to work on some pretty incredible projects. Yeah, sure. So I think like I said, I think I started being focused on the digital and things that were, you know, maybe, you know, at first around the internet. But basically, I've sort of like, I basically followed the progression of technology and how the sort of role the creatives applied to technology. So originally it was web design and it was interface. And it was how do people interact with the computer and a mouse and the keyboard and how do you create a compelling experience, you know, using HTML and flash and all that stuff. And that was like probably the first half of my career was doing that. And then around, I want to say like 2006 or 7 in digital advertising. Really became a thing. It became like, you know, the brands are spending a lot of money and investing in that. And I think that was, you know, and sort of at that point, that's when I transitioned into advertising. I started working at shy day. And really moved away from, you know, sort of this interface and interactive design background that I had. And that was really interesting because it sort of of married storytelling, but then you could also use technology. And, you know, almost like hacked together ideas. Like, you know, new platforms are out and this is sort of pre-social media. So you couldn't, you know, brand or a company couldn't just go to their Facebook account. They didn't have a platform. I remember there was a Nissan project back in the day. And they wanted to create a site where people could share pictures of their cars. And it sounds like, oh, that's a simple idea. We're back then. There wasn't, there wasn't Facebook, right? There wasn't Instagram. So they actually had to create their own site with their own people would log into the site and upload photos this site. So that's what brands were doing. They were just sort of taking technology that was out there and, you know, and mixing things together. And so it was almost like hacking in a way. It was kind of cool. And so that was a really fun period. But I think when social media started, you know, I sort of saw that that social media would kind of replace that, you know, which was somewhat disappointing because, you know, messing around and hacking technology together is really fun. But it also presented a really amazing opportunity. We're like, you think about Instagram, for instance. And it's just, it's a blank square, right? And like, I can't think of a better brief to like a creative person. So here's a blank square and fill it with something amazing, right? And so that, that's what got me really excited about. It's like, okay, it could be images, it could be video, it could be storytelling, it could be anything. But it's this format that everyone has to play by these rules. And so, you know, at that point, it's all about how creative and how compelling and how interesting the content could be. Right. The constraints that are brought into it actually help you to create because sometimes if it was say a blank webpage and then you had to fill up every inch of it and figure out how to do that, that can be really daunting. But when everything is kind of set and there's a certain amount of rules, so a video can't be over one minute. Right. Then you have to start to get a little bit more creative Twitter. It's like a hundred, well, now it's 280. They're kind of changing up even more. But they're still a limit. They're still kind of a rule book that you need to go by. And I think that those constraints make creativity so much easier. Yeah, they do. You know, constraints are sort of the key. Even if you don't have anything, it's great to like impose your own constraints on what you're doing. Nothing forces you to be creative more than a really great constraint. When did you start getting interested in Instagram? Was it early on? Yeah, I think it was around 2012. I was working for Sachi and Sachi and they sent a bunch of us to South by Southwest. And part of the requirement for everyone that was going, we had to all share our trip on our Twitter and Instagram and use their hashtag. I'm like, okay, fine. I guess I'm going to create an Instagram account. And yeah, my first post is I think from the airplane landing in Austin. And you know, I probably spent the first two months using it. Like, you know, everyone else does you know, pictures of food and yeah, that's my girlfriend. That's my girlfriend. It's nothing but food. Nothing wrong with that. Yeah, no, no, no. Yeah, there we go. But I took a trip to Big Sur after a few months after that. And you know, just sort of started taking pictures of just the natural environment there and immediately, I think as soon as I like, maybe the second post I did from Big Sur kind of like something clicked for me. I saw a big increase in sort of like the amount of likes and comments and engagement. My post we're getting. And we back then it was like, oh, it's getting three instead of one. Yeah, but it's an indicator. But it's like, wow. Okay, so there's a connection here between you know, the quality or just like the the how compelling the content is and then how it performs. And I think that's as an artist. Like, that's all you need to like know is that, okay, the better I make this, the more people are going to see it and the more people are going to appreciate it. That sort of that seed, I think, was all I needed to kind of like get me going and really kind of pull me into the app. And it's definitely, I think, changed my, changed my life, changed my career. It's a pretty amazing, pretty amazing with it at the time. Did you call yourself a photographer at that point? Absolutely not. No. And where the, you were shooting on your phone at this time or you, you started actually shoot on a legit camera. No, that point was also on my phone. I think I had gone on the extra step and gotten one of those like lens adapters from my phone. Yeah. So I was a little fancy, but that was about it. I had a, had a camera I just bought for actually one of my honeymoon and I wanted to get like a nice camera just like any tourist would. So I started playing around with DSLRs. But, you know, at that point, I really considered myself a designer and art director. I didn't really consider myself a photographer. But it's funny because that's photography is actually like where I really started back in the day in high school. And so for me, it was kind of going back to my roots and, you know, sort of learning something that I'd sort of always kind of loved but never really had a reason to get back in. I think Instagram became that reason and then it was sort of, it was full, you know, full speed ahead from there. Yeah. Were there any moments where as you're, you're developing this Instagram account and you start to get more and more traction where you go from three likes to 10,000 or whatever it is. What's that journey look like? And what's that against the, I guess what's the, how did that play out? Sure. So yeah, I guess started with, you know, actually me and a friend of mine who kind of joined at the same time and we were kind of like jokingly competing with each other to see who could get to like a thousand followers first. And like, figuring out if you hashtag this or hashtag that, you're going to get more likes and and started doing it. I just, you know, I became, and I think you see this light. You get, as an artist, you get a little obsessed with it because it's such a great feedback loop for you because you're so like, wow, I'm going to take this. It doesn't, I was all of my iPhone still. I was doing some traveling and just taking photos as I was traveling with the iPhone, but I was using a lot. I was probably posting like three times a day. Oh wow. And do you post that much still? I don't. Yeah. But yeah, I was posting a lot back then. And actually, I've probably got to about 2,000 followers just from just using it a lot. I think Instagram kind of incentivizes you to post and use the app a lot. And so kind of like, you know, you gain followers. And I think when I had about 2,000, I became an Instagram made me a suggested user for about a week. Something they don't do anymore. They did it back then. And sometimes when you're a suggested user, some people would get like 200,000 followers. Some people would, 400,000. Some people would get 5,000. I got 20,000 followers from it. That's insane. So yeah, it's crazy. It literally was just one week. We were like, okay, cool. Now I have 20,000 followers. Yeah, it's insane. I was going to turn on and then you start getting like, 100s of followers like every minute. It's kind of crazy. Wow. I mean, I was thinking about that because I mean, I'm pretty early in the game and creating original content and putting it out there. But like, you went from a point where you're whole audience. You kind of see it in audience of 2,000 people. And then it jumps up to 20,000. And now your audience isn't the same. Right? Right? You're not even two. Those people, you have to kind of build that relationship over again from scratch. True. And it's interesting because it kind of changed the way I used it, too. I felt like all of a sudden, you know, I went from being in a living room with a few friends to being on stage, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Oh boy, I have to take this a little more seriously now. And I think at that point, I really started like, I did start taking it more seriously and you know, I've started like really thinking about every image a little bit more. And making, you know, making sure I really thought like, each one I was posting was really high quality. And, you know, I kind of like had this thing that is like, well, if it's to me, like, I consider my Instagram, like, not, this isn't a rule for everyone for me. It's like, I consider like my gallery. Mm-hmm. And so if I have a post, if I don't think this post is like, good enough to print and frame and hang on a wall, then I don't want to share it on Instagram. So that was sort of my, like, you know, my rule. But, um, so that's, that's a big part of like how I changed, you know, once I started getting, once I was suggesting I had a bigger audience. But I think, from there, I mean, I'm at about 87,000 right now. And a lot of that which just, you know, I have a big Los Angeles audience, I think, a little over two thirds of my audiences is in Los Angeles. And I think a lot of it I was gained from doing a lot of aerial photography of Los Angeles for a while. Um, and, uh, and I think a lot of my audience came from that. Um, so yeah. Yeah, I love the just the different approaches because, um, people using this, this platform, uh, there's so many different ways that you could go about it. Like, you have your way, which everything is very clean and all the images are incredibly beautiful. And, and there's like, almost a tone to it and you have a style. So even somebody doesn't need to see your name, and they will likely pick up that it's a photo from you. Uh, and then I just had Brian Bowen Smith on the podcast recently. And, uh, amazing photographer. He, it's just like, it's like his dinner or like, just random videos of him and his dog and his very personal. And he, I don't think he ever shows any of his works. Sure. And it works for him and, uh, his audience loves that. So it's like, you have to find the right approach for you. Yeah. But also, I would say probably do something that you enjoy doing. Absolutely. Because if it becomes a drag, if you, if you, if you start to overthink it, you might not actually enjoy the process as much. Yeah, it's interesting watching. And I know a lot of them, friends with a lot of, you know, professional photographers who are photographers away before Instagram. And it's interesting to see how professional photographers, you know, either like embrace or kind of push away Instagram. And yeah, I think there's obviously a right way to do it. I think a lot of professionals don't necessarily want to share their finished work on Instagram a lot of times. I'm not sure exactly why, but it's okay. It's okay to, you know, if you want to be more personal, obviously that's fine too. But, um, I think, uh, for me it becomes, you know, it's about, you know, I think it's about, it's almost like, look at the like programming a channel. You know, it's like, I want, I want every piece of content to be as good as the last or better. And so, um, I'm not necessarily looking to share anything from my personal life. It's more about a platform for my, for my creative self. Yeah, that's what mine is turned into to where, uh, I, you can certainly see the evolution not too long ago when it would just be pictures of food or like my trip to Sydney. And it's, it's very personal. But then as I started through this podcast and I started to get more, um, you know, more and more dedicated to actually trying to build this, this following and trying to create something. Uh, that's where, that's actually, it's become my life though. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like, if the film stuff is my life, it's a part of me. And instead of just starting over from zero followers with ground at ground up show, I was like, you know what? I'm just going to put myself into my personal account and try to grow this thing. I'm actually doing the video now, like, a majority of my posts are video. And I'm trying, because I'm like, when I did the podcast, I was like, How can I separate myself? How can I make this a little bit different than every other podcast out there? It's 2017. Yeah. It's, it's a little bit, the, the market's pretty thick and it's a little bit hard to separate yourself from the very beginning. Sure. So I was like, well, nobody has, like, really dope videos for their podcast. Right, right, right. So not only can I shoot this whole thing. And, you know, some of the, some of the actual long full episodes get a decent amount of views. But for the most part, the listeners tune in on iTunes. Yeah. So I don't really create this and shoot these with that thought in mind. Like, oh, people are going to watch the full episode. Right. I'm thinking, I can cut together four to eight. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That will get people excited because to listen to an hour and a half conversation, or to watch a two hour documentary. Yeah. You need a trailer first. Sure. You need something that's going to tell you a little bit about what you're going to get. Right. So that was my thought process. And I've been evolving the videos and kind of adding different elements of be role and different, like, quote, sub front. Like, there's certain things. Like, we were talking about with the constraints that you have to keep in mind, where now a lot of the ones I start out with, like, a quote with the person. The white backdrop. Right. So I'm like, okay, that's probably going to catch somebody's attention. And if I can get in with that quote, because they're not hearing the music or the sound. Right. Then they can unclick the audio and then the rest of the teaser will play out. Yeah. It's time to tune me. But it's, well, it's what you have to do. Yeah. I think, you know, to think about, and this is what it, you know, just coming from, you know, the agency, not too long ago. Like, everything they do, everything you do now for brand, like you have to create content for, you know, ten different formats. Ten different platforms, right? So it's almost like you can't look at it as like a commercial shoot or a print shoot. You just, everything is a, I was like, it is like a content event, right? And so you're creating this, whatever it is, a scene or whatever. And then you have to figure out how to create all of this content and all of these different formats out of that one sort of event. And so this is an event. You're going to create, you know, content for Twitter, content for Instagram, content for YouTube, content for the movie theater, whatever it is. Yeah. But it has to accommodate everything. Yeah. For, like, obviously, a big team and an agency, it's certainly easier. I had Billy Disney, who he does video content for the outline. They're amazing online publication. And when they first started out, he actually recorded, they recorded all of their videos. I think they were using Sony's, but they would shoot their videos, of course. Genius. Yeah. And like they would do the interviews like that. So it, you know, it was a full profile, both for Instagram stories and like Twitter and Instagram. It's self. Yeah. You could create square videos or vertical videos that looked really dope. And like, he's like, everybody was hitting him up because he knows all the other people in media. Right. And like, how did you do that? Like, how did you go about creating? Because it was also shot in 4K. So for YouTube, they could crop it down. Right. Right. So, but he's like, they only had a team of like six people. So they're like, we had this big bold idea in the beginning. And eventually maybe we'll get back to it. But it's hard to maintain with such a small team. It is. It's really hard. Yeah. The whole idea about shooting vertical, something I'm really familiar with. We did a whole big, the last sort of big campaign I worked on before I left and found in my company was all about vertical video. And, you know, basically we had, we had the sort of the briefers like, okay. 2017 is the first year where people are going to watch more content on their phones. And they do on televisions. Right. And the massive percent of the content you see on your phone is vertical. And all of it should be vertical, honestly. Because that's the best format to fill your affiliate device. Well, yeah, what he was saying though, too, was that for, I could be wrong. Like, you could correct me if I'm wrong. But like, more shorter form content. Because it's the active turning the phone. Yeah. So if it's over two to three minutes, it's long enough that you might be inclined to share it. But most, I would probably say most content is ingested very quickly in short bursts. Totally. Yeah. No, it makes sense. Yeah. So I think there's like, you know, there's a huge need to figure out how do you how do you accommodate for that like, like we're saying earlier, you're trying to create content for all these platforms. And now you also have to create it for different, you know, aspect ratios that are like wildly different. You know, it's really hard to shoot one shot that works in both nine by 16 and 16 by nine. It's kind of challenging. Yeah. I think that's, that's, like, yeah. And I think you have to start small and just get started as always my first piece of advice. Yeah. Because it's going to evolve and change over time. Yeah. And there might be some pieces really like, well, it's not going to work as a square. I'm just going to, you know, make it wide screen. Yep. How important are those details to you as now, like an independent creator somebody who's branched off to do your own thing? Hmm. Do you find those small details to make a big difference? Yeah. I do. I do, especially with clients that, you know, I think when you have sort of educated clients, they really appreciate when, you know, they're not the ones asking you to make sure everything will, will crop right in vertical. You're the one saying, okay, I want to shoot this in vertical primarily. And I think, you know, they love hearing that because usually it's a struggle for them to, to make sure their vendors will have their working with. They're going to be able to produce content that's going to work for all these informats. If you're taking the lead and really like the initiative in that, I think there's, they definitely appreciate that. Yeah. Actually, you're totally right. Especially with the client stuff. I mean, these are companies usually that have massive reaches as well. Yeah. So like doing something is subtle and saying, all right. And then, so we'll also record alternate endings for YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, like all these different social platforms. They love that. Absolutely. And it's very thoughtful and it works for big audiences because then that makes a huge difference. Yes. Because if you can convert 10% more on YouTube, that means a whole lot to that business. Absolutely. When you're starting out, this is why I'm saying, I don't know if it's important when you're starting out. Because for me, it's like, all right, what do I get two more likes? Or I get two more conversions. Sure. But probably just, like, in terms of best practices, it's good to think about these things. Yeah. I mean, I think on, you know, just looking at my own Instagram and other brand Instagrams that I, that I've helped, you know, sort of feed content to the vertical post. I think it's kind of on the speed just performs better. So just like talking about in the feed, like flow vertical four by five vertical, you know, versus even a square versus anything that's horizontal. You vertical is always going to get a more percentage, but definitely gets better engagement. Oh, we do. Do you do all your photos in that way? Almost. Very, very, very, really doing not post. You can, can you do videos in that? Absolutely. I think if you look, yeah, almost every single post I've done in the last year's vertical. Yeah, man, you might have just changed up my strategy here. Because I've been doing square just because it's, it's easier. Yes, sort of working out. Yeah. Yeah, right. Exactly. It's just kind of assumed that you would go square. Yeah. It makes sense just because the phones are such a finite screen. Sure. So you have that, like, 3% extra space on the screen. Yeah, more real estate. Yeah, more real estate. I'll bring you more real estate. You should take it. Yeah. Because I've even been one to post like the really thin wide screen ones. Right? Or even the ones where you crop it down even more. You do the end more fig chip. Yeah. Where you're like, man, is anybody actually going to look at this? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It would be great if there was a rotate your phone if you turn Instagram. Maybe we'll get there one day for videos. But until then, it's just, it's so hard to just, you know, have people get engrossed in the content. Yeah. Because it's just a matter of pixels. And, you know, you're just giving them less information. So fill up, you know, like, play to the platform. Play to the rules that are there right now and take advantage of it. Yeah. I geek out with this stuff. I like it. A lot of, I mean, people, the best advice is obviously focus on the craft, focus on the story. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's amazing. It's nice. And I say that all the time. Yeah. If you make a shitty video, but it's in, you know, that four by five aspect ratio. Sure. Nobody's going to watch it. It's not going to get traction. Yeah. It's not going to be effective. Yeah. Let's just say that's obvious. Right. That's guaranteed. So it's like, all right. What are the details that we can tweak to actually make the experience better? Yeah. And also gain the most traction. Yeah. Yeah. When I'm curious about, like, we were talking earlier about just social media and kind of, They kind of, how it's easy to get overwhelmed. Yeah. So somebody like yourself who has a big following, who's, you know, you need to be developing and pushing out content frequently. Do you use any apps like Buffer to kind of create that flow and schedule posts? I don't know. I just do it all. Do it all by hand. Yeah. That's nice. You plan ahead. A little bit. I have, you know, I have sort of like few posts lined up for certain dates that I, you know, definitely want to get out. But I think, you know, a lot of the times I'll just, you know, I have sort of a folder of things I want to post. And when in the time comes, I'll just sort of look at and just pick one that I think feels right for the moment. Do you and Cole Younger, like same thing? Yeah. Same strategy where I was thinking that you guys would be like, like, like, mavens where you would like schedule it out a year in advance. Like, obviously, it's tough because certain things, like say the fires in California here, that's very timely. Those are photos that you want to get out right now. Sure. For me, I, why just discovered it, too. So I can't pretend like on the pro. Yeah. But there's this company. I used to use them called Buffer. I don't know if you've heard about that. Yeah. So, well, that's the, the one bad thing is that they show that little thing sometimes on Facebook where it's like, this was posted via Buffer. Right. I wonder if that's actually going to hurt the interactions there. Yeah. Or if Facebook's going to bury it a little bit more. Sometimes does that, yeah. Yeah. They might do that. But that aside, it's been amazing because so we were recording this in December, heading into the holidays. Yeah. And for me, like, I'm going to be away. I don't want to be on my phone all the time. I have the next two weeks totally scheduled with all my teasers, trailers, everything. Going to Twitter, Facebook. Instagram, they don't like the API. They don't connect through Buffer. But I have the app. So basically, it pops up on a notification on the Buffer app and it says, hey, we're ready to post your video because I would schedule at that's time. Yeah. And then it opens up the video. It actually like stores the video, which is great because it actually takes that step from downloading. I used to have to send the videos to Dropbox on Drop. I don't know what you did, but then take Dropbox and then save it to my phone. Yeah. And then upload it. You can upload it on your desktop to the Buffer app. Yeah. And then that push notification sends it. And then it says, open this in Instagram. So it goes right into Instagram. And it also copies the clip on the clipboard. Then that's the message I said. Yeah. Because like, you know, with Instagram, I would always wait till the day up. And I'd be clicking away with my thumbs. And like, you can't, it's hard to write a long post on Instagram. Because you have to kind of scroll up to see it. So that to me alone was like, oh, okay, cool. And I, because I want to be more mindful about my use of social media. And if I'm always accessible to it, if I'm always able to plug into it, I feel like I will take it too far. Sure. And I will just be on Instagram for the next time. It's like an escape for you to make sure you're not, yeah. Exactly. So I was actually thinking about that. I was like, shit, man, I would. I don't know if you have any rules like this. But I wanted to do experiment with at least the next couple of weeks and say, All right, I'm only going to do social media once a day. Check email once a day. And so I was doing that. We're all set in alarm at 7 a.m. I'll do all my social media posts. I'll comment and respond to people. Yeah. And then just shut it off. I'm, I don't know, do you, maybe I just have a terrible addiction. And I'm like, I go too far with it. But I don't know how, if you feel that pull as well. Yeah. I definitely have an addiction. I've never tried to like curtail it though, but that would be a good strategy. Yeah. I get to that point. Dude, I'm like, it's I'm an on and off switch. I don't think that I have the capability of even checking twice a day. I think if I did twice a day, it would be over. Yeah. But if I just say once a day, it's really simple. It's really clear. Yeah. I even like hide all my apps in like far away corner of my phone. Yeah. I've done that too. I've hidden apps. I don't want to use anymore. But then you just go back to it. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? You just find yourself halfway. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I had Facebook, like, in the bottom of my phone, was like Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat, Facebook. Yeah. I just found myself checking Facebook too much. They were like really tricky with how that like heavy notifications and that little, like, Yeah. A little red circle on there. Oh, and I just like, I found myself in it. I'm like, I don't even enjoy this. So I just, I hit it on another screen. And now I find myself like, when I need it, I go to it. But I'm never like just drawn to it, you know? Yeah. You do it on the desktop. I don't know if you do it. Like, first thing you open up Google Chrome or whatever browser as you go, and then enter, right in the browser, like, and then enter, and then you just like, you hit the usual suspects. Right. Yeah. The worst thing for me now is, you know, I'm using Instagram. It's actually, you know, getting doing a lot of business through Instagram, like, so communicating with people through DMs and, you know, there's a lot of, a lot of times I have to open up Instagram to do work, right? And I find myself constantly open up Instagram to go, do something to your DMs. And then, like, ten minutes later, I'm watching stories, like, what was I doing? Yeah, dude. It happens here all the time. Yeah. And I think, so actually, I'm getting into a book called Deep Work Now, which is really good. I highly recommend it for anybody. Becca Sharon, who's on the podcast, recommended it. Oh, cool. It is, it's a by a guy named Count Newport. And it's all about focus and how, like, Deep Work is where we create our art. It's where we learn the best. And it's necessary to create the best art and the best work that you can. Wow. And, like, kind of just citing all these examples from people throughout history that have used this practice and even today that you set. So, and basically, the enemy of Deep Work is distractions. And even if it's like one time, and it's never just one time, one thing, where you get distracted in these apps, it pulls you away from that Deep Work and it diminishes the actual work you're doing. Yeah, I can see that. So, I mean, you know, I'm sure, like, when you get into a project, and what are they called, like, Flow or whatever, that's state where you're just like sure. You're not even thinking. You're just doing the work. And you're feeling inspired. And you don't even want to check out the distractions. But obviously, everybody gets fatigued after a little while. We're using some willpower. There's definitely something to that. I mean, look at myself. But even just looking at, like, I feel like that, that truth is sort of like ingrained into the process of advertising, too, like sort of unknowingly. And this is like, I think this is something that's true. Every agency I've ever worked at, every team we've been on, we're like, you have a picture, just some really important meeting or something. It's like 90% of the work happens than I before, the meeting. It's like always, every single time, no matter what. No matter how far an advanced you plan, no matter how you try to work against that, that's just how it works. And I think there's something to that. It's because I think you get into that zone. I think after whatever, APM 10PM, people stop sending me email. She's talking and calls the world goes to sleep, right? And then it's just you and trying to solve the problem. And so it's AIDS, like, you're more free of distraction. But also something about getting into that, like, something about, I want to say, being tired, but just something about being in that, like, beta state or whatever it is. I don't know how much about that works. Yeah. I feel like you're, you know, I do my best work. Like, late at night, you know, everyone else is sleeping. I can just focus and, like, actually get stuff done. And I don't know what it is. And maybe that book has the answer to it. Yeah. You should check it out. There's definitely a truth there. I think it's also, like, everybody works a little bit differently. For me, I, I used to be more of a night person and get my work done at night and go to bed really late. But lately, I've been developing an early morning routine. But I know people, like you on both spectrums, people that, like, their best work is done at night. Best work is done in the morning or in the afternoon. But it's kind of being aware of that is really important. Because then you're not going to feel so guilty if you go through the day without getting anything major done, to where you can, you know that you can still create the work that you need to make. Yeah. Absolutely. In the, like, you, so you've worked on a couple of amazing projects I was looking at on your website. I love to talk about, including getting a con lion. Yeah. Which, I didn't even know what that was, but my girlfriend's in advertising. Oh, cool. And she, she, it's definitely one of those lifetime goals that she's striving for. You want to describe what that is. What does it mean to get a con lion? Yeah. So, I mean, there's, there's so many awards that give out for advertising, but the, the con lion is sort of like the, Yeah, as a can or con. I don't know. I should know. Yeah. I go back and forth. Potato potato. But, um, yeah. It's sort of, you know, it's the one, obviously, everyone wants to get us for the most. I don't know what you call it. Just the prestigious, that's the word. Um, but, uh, yeah. It was actually, um, like, like I said, I really like I'd come from the digital side of advertising. And actually, my very first TV spot ever got to make was the one I got the, the line for. Was that the gas front's everything? It was, yeah. What? I just watched it this morning. I mean, it was incredible. Cool. Uh, such a clever idea. And the execution was killer on that. Yeah. Like everything, like the, the props in it. It's killer pretty awesome. I mean, we had a, and, you know, this is the thing was working advertising two years. It's, I was one person on a massive team. So I got to immediately just give credit to so many other people that worked on it. Dante Arigola was a director on that. Um, the canline was actually in the art direction category. Um, and I think, yeah, that's, that's probably the big reason because it was, you know, yeah. All the props were just perfect. And like, it just, it just felt right. Yeah. Yeah. So it was for, um, thinking it was back in, I'll say 2011. And it was when Nissan announced the, the Leaf, which, um, is still available. But at the time it was sort of like the first, like, you know, electric car for everybody, kind of thing. It was like around thirty thousand dollars. I think back then, like the Tesla, that was out was super expensive and that very practical. And so this was like Nissan was really, you know, planting a flag in the ground. That okay, we want, we're going to support electric cars instead of the first electric car. And so they were looking, you know, they wanted like a big, you know, spot that would get attention and sort of frame this idea in a way that hasn't been really frame before. And, um, so yeah, the whole idea is that, you know, we're so used to, um, you know, the idea of what your car felt so far into people. But he thought it sort of flipped down his head and it's like, well, actually the only thing we really have in our lives that isn't electric is the car. Everything else is electric, right? Every till every appliance you have, every, like, gadget you have, it's all electric, it all runs on battery. So why is this one thing in your life, not electric, right? And like, well, what would the world actually look like if it was flipped and it's like everything you had ran on gas. It'd be disgusting if you tear it all totally, you know, impractical. And so you start sort of pulling that thread and figuring out what, you know, what does a gas powered hair dryer look like? Was a gas powered alarm clock look like gas powered blender, you know, coffee maker. So that's kind of where the idea came from. And then we sort of, you know, figured out a, you know, my writing partner Glenn Sanders at the time figured out, you know, sort of script and figured out what the story was. And, uh, yeah, it was really fun. My favorite ideas and my favorite commercials and spots are those that are just incredibly simple. Yeah. That, you know, at least the spot that I watched, no dialogue until, like, ten lines in. Yeah. I heard, I'm sorry, like, ten words at the end of the spot. And that's it. And even that, you probably didn't even need to actually say it. It could literally reveal itself. Um, but obviously it's some, it's nice to kind of get a little extra judge. Yeah. And they had Martin Downey Jr's or Vio guys, so yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's that really? I didn't realize that. That's as voice. I shouldn't have done that. Robert Downey Jr. Martin Downey. Robert Downey. Yeah. I think I got it. Anything you say Downey Jr. Yeah. Yeah. I'm curious from your perspective. Now that you've branched off to start your own agency. Yeah. How do individuals and very small startup agencies compete with the big guys? Um, I don't think there's ever been a better time to compete with the big guys. Um, I think, you know, the media landscape is so sort of fragmented right now. And it's changing so quickly. I think, um, you have such an advantage. If you're a if you're small and then be if you really like, um, are flexible and are staying current and can adapt and change as the landscape changes. Um, because, you know, big companies and big agencies. Um, you know, they work on annual, you know, they sort of at the beginning of the year. They figure out a plan for the next calendar year and guess what? By halfway through that calendar year, the media landscape is completely changed and they have to figure out how to do things differently. Um, so they're sort of this built in rigidity to, you know, the big agency. So as a small company and small agency, you have the ability to change on the dime. Um, and so I think you can, you can, you know, it's, it's an incredible time to be in that space because clients really need that. Um, and I think brands are looking for partners that can do things that their big agencies can. I think they'll always be big agencies and, um, I think big companies need a big agency to kind of feel comfortable working with. They can't always rely on a bunch of small companies. They don't really have the resources to manage all those vendors, but, um, I think, for the right projects. I think, um, there's going to be more and more opportunity, I think, for smaller independent creatives to just work directly with brands. Um, whether it's social media or not. How do you even get into this space? So you obviously have come from the industry. And then once you, you're still in it, but you're leaving to start your own thing. How do you build up a client list and start to actually get paid to make this creative? Sure, sure. I mean, a lot of it is just, you know, I mean, for me personally, um, you know, I've been working in the industry in Los Angeles specifically for, like, the last 15 or so years. And so, um, you know, I just a lot of relationships that I've built over the years, um, clients that I've worked with, um, colleagues that I've worked with that are now a company's. But honestly, I feel like, um, Instagram is an amazing business development tool. Um, I have, I've been having an amazing lock just like DMing brands directly on Instagram, which sounds crazy. But like, especially if you have a following and, you know, um, it's an incredible way to to connect with someone because what you're doing is you're connecting to the person at the company who actually manages their social. You're not, you're gonna meet going right to the person who sort of do in their day-to-day. And yeah, and from your experience, these aren't just interns that are posting this stuff. These are the people that are actually, uh, working with the brand to develop this stuff. Sure, sure. I mean, whether or not it's like an intern or, you know, maybe not necessarily like the CMO who's posting. Yeah. There's, you know, generally they have a process now and a way to like have that communication get to the right person. Um, so I would, I would think like, you know, um, if you're trying to sort of create, um, you know, company or just sort of create content for brands. Um, and you use Instagram and Instagram a sort of your, you know, your primary platform for yourself. I think there's, there's no better way, like forget about emails, forget about going to conferences, like to DM them. It's incredible the response you can get. Wow, I never even thought of that. That's such great advice because not only, like think about if you compare the two of them in an email. First of all, you send this cold email out. Yeah. Um, you probably have a little bit more space to write what you want to write. But then you also have to include links to your work that they have to click through to, and you know, it's just a very sticky situation. And also you're, you're filled up with all these other people who are messaging them to the same thing. In Instagram DM, I guarantee it's, that doesn't sound like a very common approach. Like I guarantee most of the people are like, hey, I love this thing or whatever, but it's not people that are trying to, you know, make a connection there, potentially do you work for that. But then it's so much easier to click through to your work. Then like your, especially when you have a beautifully curated page like yours, it's, it's your work. And then if you have a following on top of that, even better. Like ads cloud, it gives you an element of legit. Yeah. It's got to be so much, so much better than just. It is. And I mean, for context too, like this, the company I founded kissed, I founded a back in June. I originally founded it back in 2006. And back then, I did it originally for about three years. And it was all focused on digital back then. We did all sorts of websites and digital campaigns, digital content. And just the difference, like back then, this is sort of the pre-social media era. The, the process of finding the clients now is, I find so much easier and so much sort of like, it's such a more fluid experience right now. And I think a lot of that just has to do with, with Instagram and sort of integrating social, like the work we're making, but also into like, how we actually go about finding new clients and finding it work. Do most people, the one thing that I would say, which is probably tough and why I don't always reach out to people with your Instagram. I think I've reached out to you over email. The reason being when you direct message somebody on Instagram when they don't follow you, it's just that little thing in the corner that says like one request or 20 requests, however many people message you. Yeah. Do you find that most people who are active on Instagram that they will actually go through those and look at them? Yeah, I mean speaking of myself, I'm always checking those because there's interesting stuff in there. There's brands reaching out to me or there's other artists or just people to work with. So I made it a practice to always check those. I'm sure not everyone does. I'm sure massive accounts can get overwhelming, but I think, especially in the last few updates, I think they've really improved the DM too, which is another reason I'm kind of advocating using it more. I think when I was first coming out with the DM, it was pretty rough and not super functional, but it's much improved. It feels like a real communication platform that you can rely on. Sure. Yeah, I think some of this advice will get dated as soon as the next update comes through. But some advice that will stand through time could be like, how do you actually approach those messages? What do you say to say like, you know, now you work with Sony? So if you wanted to message Sony and work with them and be a ambassador, how do you go about crafting that message? Sure. I mean, I think, you know, keeping it short obviously is great, like get to the point really quickly. I mean, you can, you can share posts in DM, which is, which is great. So, you know, I'd usually like just do a quick, quick intro try to get right to the point, like the second or third sentence, and then maybe share a visual share something that you posted that's relevant to you now. So, um, yeah, like you don't have to write a whole long message. I think just get right to the point and wait for response, and then when you get their response, then you can kind of go on to more detail, but just kind of keep it quick. Keep it, you know, sort of like native to what is supposed to be. It's not supposed to be, it's not email, it's not just, you know, five paragraphs, like keep it simple. And then start a conversation and once you start it, then you can like, you know, go deeper into what you want to. Right. Get across. What have you learned from, like, working on these big ad campaigns and these big agencies? What have you learned about promoting yourself? Yeah. And like a big part of what I've done is making that transition from helping these other companies. There's obviously, there's a balance between both of it, like helping the startups, helping these companies and lift them up with your creative skill. Sure. How do you take those creative skills that you have developed and then use it for yourself to promote your own message? Yeah. That's a great. I think, um, whether or not you're on Instagram or not, but if you're an artist of any kind, you're, you are a brand and I think, you know, there's definitely rules that you can take from, you know, from looking at how big brands, you know, behave and apply that to your own to yourself. You know, one thing is consistency. I think, you know, you don't want to be too rigid and just do the same thing over and over again, but I think you have to be consistent in terms of quality, you have to be consistent in terms of some kind of tone and some kind of voice. And, you know, people should, like you said earlier, you should be able to sort of pick your stuff out. If they know your brand, they should be able to recognize it and, you know, sort of, from the noise. Yeah, that's what's going to get people to stop. Right. That's why they, they pause. Yeah. I like this guy like what he makes. Yeah. And you know, like brand is really important because, you know, as you're, as you're accomplishing things, like, it was like, like your brand is like the bank account, you get to deposit your accomplishments in. Right. Because not everything is about the check you get at the end of the, at the end of the work. Like, well, I did this work and this, the work is worth something because it's really cool. People are going to see it and it's going to, you know. So if you don't have a brand, you don't have, you have nowhere to place that value. It's like not having a bank account, you know. You know what I struggle with is, I get sick of my brand. Like, you know what I mean? You just see it so much. I have this like bright yellow color that I use and all my stuff. And then lately, I just made a shift to going more muted. And I don't know if it's because I'm improving the brand or if I just got bored of the yellow. Like, how do you, do you just get sick of a style that you maybe you've created and you're like, I want to switch it up. Sure. It just seems like a lot, especially when you, I mean, your stakes are higher. Like, you've got a bigger audience. Sure. So how do you approach that? I mean, I think it's, you know, I look at like an evolution. Like, I don't think you ever want to just like, stop, you know, at some point and do completely new brand. Like, I look at it as like, it's fine to constantly refresh and update and improve. You should be doing that. So I think as long as like the changes are subtle and you look at like how all the big websites do it now. Like, they used to, you know, websites used to like have a design. It was like design 1.0 and then all of a sudden one day, if you design 2.0 it would be completely different and everyone be confused. But what you really need to do is what everyone does now is this slow evolution. We're like, you're changing things little by little. And you look at Facebook now and you look at it, you know, 12 months ago. And I look very different. But you don't really notice the changes as much, right? Because we used to lose their shit. Actually, I did this documentary design disruptors and we interviewed them at Facebook just about some of those early days. And like, people would make message boards and like, they would protest. Yeah. They would protest Facebook or anger interface. It's so angry with new features. It's wild. Yeah. Because the way actually they put it was that it's kind of like if you came home. And somebody rearranged all the furniture in your living room. Yeah. You're like, well, why do you move my shit around? Because it's people's stuff. It's like, it's their photos, their friends. They feel deeply connected to it. And you're right. Like now it's, when's the last time you notice the change on Facebook? Right. Very rarely. Because it's all, it's just subtle. It's gotten really good at like having those and making them. So I think, but the same thing applies to your brand. I think there's nothing wrong with like tired of yellow, stop using yellow, but don't change everything at once. Just change the color and that you know what I mean? So yeah, if you radically change everything. It's like constant evolution. I think just be constantly evolving your brand. But you know, so it always feels connected to where you were. But it always feels fresh as well. Right. People flip that to when Instagram changed their logo. Oh yeah. Like now I've used to it. I think everybody's just like, oh yeah, it's cool. It's crazy. But like when it first came out, they're like that. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, it's like, it's about a hundred different colors packed into it. I need a little square. I know. Now you look at the original logo. Like the old schumorphic wooden camera thing or whatever that was. It looks like so. How deep I know. It's so old. Isn't it weird? I don't know. I think there's something wrong with our brains. Right? Because how can that happen over the course of a year? Where we just look at something now and be like, oh my god. Yeah. Yeah. Your perspective totally changes. It's amazing how quickly. Yeah. Yeah. So that's actually probably a good lesson for people who want to switch up their brand and change something. Is that, you know, if you keep moving forward. Yeah. As long as you. I think if Instagram changed their logo once a month. For an entire year, people will just get fed up with it. And you're kind of lose that connection. Yeah. But if you just make one change and then you stick with that and see how that works for an extended period of time. Yeah. That's probably the best advice for it. I think so. Making those changes. Yeah. Yeah. In terms of your business. Yeah. How have things been going? You said you've been pretty busy. Yeah. The last few months have been incredibly busy. Yeah. It's been really great. I mean, I sort of had this notion. You know, back. I guess like eight months ago now, whatever when I was at the agency. And what I was trying to do was really like, okay, I'm, you know, I'm a creative director and I've been doing that for a while, but I'm also now through Instagram a content creator too. And I'm a photographer. So how do those two things kind of like blend together and what kind of comes out of it? So I thought it was, I don't know. I thought it was almost like an experiment. Okay, like an art director, a creative director, like in the agency context, like their tools Photoshop, right? Like you can come up with an idea and like you go and you like take images from Google images and create like a mood board or whatever right? And like that's how you convey the idea. And that's how you sell it. But what if you took Photoshop away and you gave them a camera instead? Like how does that actually not just change the process, but kind of change the ideas that you can actually develop and come up with? So my idea was like, well, if you do that, like you're certain, you're in a lot of ways, you're like you're flipping the the paradigm on its head a little bit. And so I just had this theory like, well, I guess like, you know, if I went off on my own and and did that, like I feel like I could do things that maybe would require like an entire company to do and I could just do myself. And so I'm kind of proving that out like it's basically me and my wife Erin right now. And you know, we have people that are helping a producers that were bringing in to help, you know, we're unique and obviously there's crew that we're hiring. We have a bigger shoot. But it's basically me and Erin. And yeah, we're doing a ton of work and a lot of it is stuff that I think that we're competing, you know, I don't say we're always competing with you agencies, but we're competing with other companies that are, you know, maybe like 10, 15 people or more. And I think just because I have the background as a career director, plus I can do the actual content creation myself, it just, you know, it not only, yeah, it's more competitive, price wise and all that, which is fine, but I think creatively it creates new avenues too because it allows, you know, there's something about like a single hand sort of touching every piece, you know, that, you know, there's something about that. And it's great to be collaborative and great to work in teams and you can create things that a single person could never do, but there is also something interesting about being able to really focus on a single thing and see it through from sort of conception, all the way through to execution. And so that's sort of the experiment in the middle of testing right now. Yes. That experiment is called my life. Yes. From the very beginning, it's, and I think that's one of the great things for creators that are just getting started out is that you can do everything yourself. So as a filmmaker, I started out, you know, I would work with these local, communications companies and I would go in and I would shoot the, like I would book a commercial and I would shoot the video, like the interviews we would do and we would do two cameras and I'd be monitoring both cameras. I'd be monitoring the audio separately and I'd be doing the interview at the same time. And it's like doing eight things at once. And then taking that and editing it, a lot of times they would ask me at the time, they would ask me, hey, can we come by your studio and kind of watch you work and, which is like, that's always a no. But this was an extra no because I used to live with my parents. So I was like, yeah, definitely not. Let me check with my mom, see if that works with her schedule. But overall, like, it just taught me every aspect of the process and it allowed me to take control over, you know, my future and my company and the work that I would get. And I still haven't grown out of that. I don't think I ever will. I mean, you do in some ways, right? Like you said, you book some big projects that you just couldn't feasibly do on your own. Sometimes you need a team. Yeah. But then for me, like coming back to this podcast in a lot of ways, it's like starting over. It's like, all right, I got to use these skills that I kind of started out with. Yeah. And I got to take control of every part of the process. Eventually down the road, it would be great if I could bring on one, one, an editor or somebody to help out with a lot of the work. Yeah. You have a lot of power. And I think that itself gives you a sense of security. Yep. These are skills that you have that are never going to that will likely never go unneeded. Yeah, absolutely. And I think technology is also a part of a two. And I think, you know, it's been slowly happening for like a while, but in the last few years, it really feels like, you know, there's, there's so many like, not just cameras, but software and post production, like all of it now is, I want to say, easy. It seems easy, but relatively easy to learn compared to like, we're used to being the past cheap. Um, sometimes free, the fact that like, to vent she resolved, I don't know if you use that or not. Uh, somebody was telling me about it recently. It's crazy. Like, this guy uses it to color and edit edit. Yeah, it's so sweet now. And it's free. It's literally free, which isn't saying. It's a pretty intuitive now because like back in the day, yeah, I mean, I'm talking like three, four years ago. I would try to open it up and it's like the nodes and the, yeah, it's kind of confusing. Um, it's, they've really improved it. It's a lot more. And honestly, I was starting from scratch. Like, I might use that. Um, like, I'm actually going to sort of recommend it to people because lately, I would just recommend final cut, but I would say that's like 300 bucks and not everybody when they're first starting to have that kind of money. I might look into that because that's. Yeah, anyone who just wants to like learn editing. Um, I can't, yeah, I think it's a great. It's got your way up. It's so intuitive. I movey. Oh my god. It's night and day. It's literally like the tool that a lot of, you know, professional color characters were used to like, to color correct, you know, real features and everything. So it's amazing that it's free. Would you start editing? Um, well, I actually started editing, man, uh, tape to tape. Uh, shit. I had to do that for one class in high school. Really? Where is that? You need to show you what we used to do back in my day. Yeah, yeah. We had to edit live, right? Is that what it was? Like, overcording from one to the other. Yeah, you're like, I had to, hi, well, I had my home system, which I like, I spent, like, my savings on when I was in college. And I got, like, so like a high eight camera. I remember high eight, but it was like kind of the format back in like the late 90s. Mm-hmm. Because a little video cassette. So you had a high eight camera and then a high eight deck. And then you had this, like, controller that you could create in and out points, based on the time code. So you'd go and you like jog through everything, you go in point out and out and then execute and go, like rewind, fast forward, record, and then basically record everything onto the, onto the deck from your camera. It was crazy. And at the time, that was probably like, this is the future. It's working for me. Yeah, it was amazing. Yeah, it was amazing. And then all of that, you could actually, the controller could actually sync up with MIDI to my synthesizer, sampler keyboard. So it was like, it was triggering not just the edits, but also like sound effects and it was crazy. Wow. It's like close my mind thinking about it now. Man, when I first got started out, I like, there was no like royalty free music. Yeah. So I was like, I picked up guitar because I was like, maybe I was actually that Jack Johnson did that as well. Yeah. He was starting out as a filmmaker. He wanted to score his, get a score for his movies. So he just, he just started playing music and making music himself. Incredible. And it's, that's what I started, I tried to do but I was just horrible. I don't have a voice. So I just didn't work out from me. Yeah. But now it's like, Yeah. Can you just do anything? It's amazing. You know, I just did for project was, I actually used to make a lot of music back when I was in college. I hadn't done it for a while, but it's a project I'm just launching in a few days, actually went and used a garage band. I just made something scratch. I'm so used to just, I have friends who are musicians and I usually like reach out to them and have them help. But I was like, this time I was going to try it. And my god, that's, I haven't used that software for years, but it is, it feels like cheating. Really? Is it that good? It's really, I got to pop in there. And you feel like, you're using like some of the baked and loops in the drum machine, but like, you tweak it just a little bit and you do something unique to it and put some, you know, you're going to end up, like after a few minutes, you're going to end up saying, totally unique that that really you created, even though it's like based off of some built-in stuff. Yeah. Way better than the box stock music in my opinion. Oh, really. I got to look into this. Yeah. Yeah. Like it's licensed. You don't have to worry about any of that stuff. Yeah. It's yours. I mean, you made it with their software. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember playing in Garage Band a long time ago. Back in my, I made like a parody rap video. A couple parody rap videos back in college. Yeah. One of them got me sued for $7 million. Oh, my god. Congratulations. Thank you. Yeah. That was my first crowning achievement. As a young man. Have you ever heard of super fresh the grocery store? Uh-huh. I don't know if they haven't met here. But AMP was like the original. It's actually the oldest grocery chain in America. Oh, wow. They were bankrupt. Yeah. So they've been around for a long, long time. Yeah. At one point, like if you look them up on Wikipedia and I have, they've, they, at one point, they were basically like, as well known as Facebook or Twitter. Like they were the brand in grocery chains. Right. They're like Whole Foods, whoever. So yeah. They sued us for making a parody rap video about produce. And the produce department. See, if that happened now, they would have like paid you. And like asked for your video to post on there. Exactly. Isn't that crazy how it's changed? Yep. Um, and that's the one thing. We were like shit. Like, I mean, they could have just asked us to take it down too. But, uh. Clearly, they were hard up for money. If they're bankrupt now. Exactly. They're like, this is like shot. We're going to just college kids. Let's get something else. This is going to be our chance to make it. Isn't it funny how, how times have changed and like, how brands, like, there's ways to approach those situations. But this was, this was actually in like 2006, 2007. So YouTube had just started. And it was a totally different world. Like, they saw that as an attack. As opposed to somebody that actually worked there and got value out of my job. But also just trying to make it a little bit more fun. Well, it was like filming in the store. Right. Like, you have to, they were upset that, you know, we didn't get permission or whatever. And it's like, people film everywhere. You're not stopping somebody from filming in a grocery store. People have made like entire films in IKEA. It's crazy. Like, it's incredible of people have done. Yeah. And now brands have to just get used to it. Well, now that everyone has an iPhone or, you know, smartphone and their pocket with an amazing camera. It's like, anyone that stops tries to stop people from photographing anything is just to losing pedal. Yeah. I don't know what it is. Like, it's just, you know. Yeah. Now, I mean, shit. We're going to, the, the Google glass didn't work out. Yeah. But eventually, I mean, it's going to, and it'll likely be. Yeah. It'll be integrated pretty seamless. Yeah. That'll be creepy. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah. That's weird. Everything was documented that you ever did. I think people would start changing how they act, especially like when you don't have your friends and family around. You know, there's always like that rude person at the grocery store. But you're like, are you like this all that they probably all the time? Yeah. Anyway, you want to get to quick questions? Yeah, sure. Cool. So let's get to quick questions. Okay. It's quick questions. Not quick answers. So, okay. Just a couple things that I like to finish off every episode. Okay. What book has had the biggest impact on your life? Hmm. Well, a good question. Just definitely been a few. I think I'll talk about one that I read most recently, which is a sapiens. Um, if you've read that. I've heard of it. Um, it's, it's an awesome book. I mean, there's definitely like books more than anything. I think I have the ability to kind of change the way I see the world. And I think read this one about six months ago or something, and it definitely changed the way I saw the world, which is where the book can do that. But, um, yeah, I think it's really, it's really fascinating. He kind of uses like, um, history and, um, just, uh, anthropology and just all these different, like, arts and science together and creates a sort of worldview, which is pretty amazing. Hmm. I think it's great, like, just books in general. Yeah. And I've, you know, gotten more into reading lately. Like, I started out just being voracious reader, reading everything I could about entrepreneurship and starting. Just because I had a lot of time on my hands, because I wasn't making any money or having projects. But like, there's something about reading that, first of all, it's calming. Like, most people just don't have the attention span today to sit down and read a book because, you know, you pulled up on your iPad and then, you know, like we said, how quickly are you just popping up in the camera, the app to look at? Yep. And it does something to you. Yeah. And I think it helps you to think about things a little bit more critically. Yeah. I feel like I have, like, I need to have sort of a theory of the world in my head at every point, like, to kind of frame everything I'm doing and, like, um, I mean, one of the books before that was, like, guns, drums, and steel, just kind of like, was really a great and kind of framed, like, history and just like, but, um, yeah, sapiens, I think can't recognize it enough. It's awesome. Cool. What drives you? It's a good question. Um, I think I just, like, making things, honestly, if I'm just going to be, like, the simplest, like, answer, it's just like, I like making things, um, yeah, usually it's photography and videos, but it could, could be anything. What one skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others haven't? Um, I think it's, using, uh, understanding technology, so I guess it'd be the skill, like, um, I wouldn't say I'm a technologist and others, you know, people who understand technology way more than I do, and I'm coding, but I think as a photographer and artist or, um, a creative, um, on trying to understand how things work, um, can really give you an advantage in the creative arts. When are you happiest? I think I'm happiest when I have a hard drive full of unedited material that I can sit down and start working. Uh, that's great. I love that. Yeah, for me, it's like when I'm in the middle of an edit. Yeah. When, start seeing the light. Yeah. Like when things start to drop into place, and the puzzle starts to fit. Yeah. I hate when I finish a project. Right. Finish a project is like the work. obviously, you have like that rush that good feeling. Mm-hmm. But you always, I don't know, there's nothing more fulfilling than actually being in the moment of a project. Yeah, sure. Um, what's the simplest advice that you think is the most important to follow? Mm-hmm. Um, I think try to, it's like seek honesty, like with yourself and with everyone around you. Mm-hmm. there's a lot of noise out there, but I think, um, if you're someone who wants to like, create a brand, um, there's no reason ever to not do anything that isn't true to yourself, because then you're just not true to your brand. Um, so I've got a big goal. I don't know if you sell all of your shoulder. I've got Dwayne the Rock Johnson frame there. I've only got two photos framed in this apartment, and that is one of them. he's there to just remind me of this goal that I have set for myself, which is to get the rock on my podcast. Yeah. I've got a website. Uh-huh. Let's call it Get the Rock on Matt's podcast. Um, it's a, it's the number one thing that listeners to the show comment to me about, uh, uh, probably because I bring it up in almost every episode. But, um, so I was, you know, obviously thinking about who has the ultimate ground up story, and in terms of, uh, just starting from nothing and building something incredible, but also like continuing to work and put in the work, beyond a place where anybody could say, okay, he's made it. He can take a break, but he doesn't, because like we said, that's not, that's not what drives us. it's the actual work that we create. So, I want to try to get the rock on my show, and I was wondering, um, if you have any advice for me, how you think I might be able to go about, not only getting his attention, but convincing him to come on. Wow. Cause you're a guy that you, you have big ideas. Sure. and you've executed on some, some massive ones. Sure. So this is my big idea. Yeah. And I'm trying to get my guests to, to help me out, and, and if I could just kind of cobble together, sure. Sure. Sure. Well, I guess like, okay, so I'm trying to solve this problem. So like, he obviously, there's a lot of people trying to get his attention all the time, right? So he's got to be the busiest person on the planet. Yeah. His Instagram is pretty insane, too. Yeah. Yeah. It's awesome. So, yeah. And he also has a wall of probably like assistance, and you know, filters around him, that are stopping 90% of the 99% of the messages that are coming out of. So it's almost like, it's, it's all about uniqueness and something like unexpected, I think. Yeah. Yeah. what is like the thing, like the opposite of like, what you would expect to do, or what you would think to do, and so, I mean, that's not like a concrete answer, but it's almost like, you have to think of like, you know, the, literally like, think about, it's just, it's like a weird solution, you know? Yeah. that's weird, or it's unexpected, and bizarre. It's a thing that like gets the most attention, you know? Yeah. I think that's, that's going to be a huge part of it. I think just like creating the website, and like, so on the website, I got like a big tweet button that auto generates tweets at the rock. as my audience grows, yeah. and as people hear about it, they're just going to keep hanging him and hitting him up. Brian Bowen's Smith, celebrity photographer, who I had on a couple episodes ago. He, is actually friends with the rock? Well, there you go. Dude. Like we were just having a conversation, it's so funny because he's like, yeah, you know, one day I'll be out at the pub, having beers in the next night, I don't have in dinner with the rock. And I was like, you could just see me, like keep the cool met. all my eyes twitching, and I'm like, what the hell? Um, just play it cool. don't be weird. But he was amazing. And he actually ended up seeing the photo before I mentioned it. And he was like, that's incredible. And then he like took a photo. And like added the rock. It's like the rock. Yeah. 95 million people follow him. He only follows 100 people, and one of them is Brian. Yeah. holy shit. Like they're legitimately buddies. Yeah. So he said he'll do what he can. He'll put in a good word for me. But it's like, I don't think, obviously that alone will do it. Sure. But like the fact that he knows. Yeah. I mean, I don't know if that got through. I think it might have. Yeah. That could be. That's the first spark. We're like, plus something else. Like if you have that, it's like a vehicle for like delivery. Yeah. So what are you going to deliver? So like it's like, what's the thing that you can make for him or do? Yeah. like that picture, like make a giant crop circle of that picture. Somewhere in Ohio or something. You know, like. Yeah. Yeah. that's what I need. There's the idea. Like something you can see from space. Like that's the rule and advertising. If like you can't think of an idea. Just do something. You can see from space. Is that really a role? I just made it up. No, that's so good. That's actually genius. Shit. Like yeah. Because I've been thinking of like, it's like trying to take in. Yeah. I was going to do eat the rocks diet for 30 days. Because somebody who actually done that and got his attention. So I had I had a call with the guy. I'm kind of picked his brain. Yeah. Though I weigh a hundred pounds less than a rock. So I'm like my die. Right. You might just run out of. Yeah. I'm just trying to think of different like clever things I can do. Yeah. We're also making the experience fun. Sure. If I can make the rock laugh. If I can get something that kind of gets his attention. Yeah. That's the catalyst for making this happen. Yeah. Good luck. Cool. Thanks, man. I appreciate that. I have to put it out there. I just think you're going to do that. Eventually something will collect. All right. So two more questions. Yes. To finish things up here. What one thing should people watch. Listen to or read before they go to bed tonight? Hmm. Okay. Well, because I brought it up earlier on a mute fan of David Lynch. They just came out with. I don't know if you know like the new the basically season three. I guess of twin peaks 25 hours later. We're going to yeah. And I mean, you kind of need to be like a fan to appreciate it on some level. But it may be like at the same time the strangest and slowest season of television ever created. But also for me and I know for a lot of other people just the most enjoyable ever. Hmm. Like I think I think TV. I mean, obviously there's you know, TV is in a completely different place now than it's ever been. But, um, what he was able to do is just he created something that is unlike anything that anyone's ever created is it's amazing. I think if you take the time like dig into it and like you should start from the beginning, right? You kind of have to. Yeah. He kind of have to really appreciate it. So yeah, that's a lot to watch before you go to bed tonight. Get started. It gets started. It's it's awesome. Yeah. That's great. And lastly, how can people connect with you online? Sure. Um, I mean, I'll set DM me on Instagram. I'm going to be sure to what I said earlier. I think that's the best way. Dylan, dot shorts. D-Y-L-N dot shorts. Cool. Yeah. All right. Thank you so much for being on the show. Yeah. My pleasure. Cool. All right. Thanks for listening to the ground up show. As always, your support is encouraging and inspiring and I appreciate you taking part in this journey with me. I hope you guys are getting some value out of the show. If you are, I'd love it if you head over to iTunes and leave a quick rating. If you do leave that rating, I will give you extended interviews with the producers of Minimalism. So that is the minimalist Josh and Ryan, as well as Spire, a media company that helped us put it all together. These are candid and intimate conversations that really dig deep into how we were able to go from nothing to Netflix. So if you take a screenshot of your rating on iTunes and send it to hello at matdevola.com, that's H-E-L-L-O at M-A-T-T-D-A-V as an Victor E-L-L-A dot com. God damn it. I wish it wasn't so confusing, but my last name is a little bit hard to spell. It's not really intuitive. There's an apostrophe in there, which isn't in the email. Don't worry about it. I don't want to confuse you. But basically, it also if you go to groundupshow.com. I have all that information there, halfway down the page. So essentially what I'm trying to get at, send that screenshot of your rating to my email. Hello at matdevola.com. And I will send you those extended interviews as simple as that. Pretty easy. Again, thanks for being a part of the journey, and I'll see you guys next week.
