# Ground Up 052 - Step Into Fear w/ Quddus Philippe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v19ECbpizNU
Get my podcast: http://groundupshow.com

Quddus Philippe is a media personality, actor & entrepreneur behind Camera Ready. Today he helps people transform and level up their on-camera presence by working on deeper blind spots.

This isn't about looking good on camera or ironing your shirt. It's about doing the work you've been putting off for years. As Quddus explains on the podcast, "When fear is present the teacher is in the room." How might facing fear help you grow this week?

More from Quddus: http://camerareadynow.com

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** create, creator, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, quddus, behind, minimalism, filmmaking, film, quddus philippe, camera ready, camera ready now, learn, find out, figure out, conversation, 
**Date:** 2018-03-28

## Transcript
 Well, I just found that vulnerability for me was a key to freedom. When I shared the stuff that I held as shameful, I realized that, oh, people don't necessarily hold it the same way that I do in contempt or judgment necessarily. There's actually a lot of empathy that emerges that surprised me when I actually started to share the stuff that I thought was shadowy and unlovable. And the next thing you know, it didn't have power over me. Welcome back to The Ground Up Show. That's Caduce Philippe. These days, he works to help transform and level up people's on-camera presence by helping them dig deeper. This isn't about the surface level stuff, like making sure you look good on camera or that your shirt is ironed. This is about finding blind spots and really being able to be your true self, to be truly confident in front of a camera or in front of an audience. On this episode, we talk about his early days as the host of MTV's TRL, a show that I grew up watching. His career as an actor and TV personality, as well as music video director, and he even works me through a personal one-on-one coaching session to help me with my interviews and my own on-camera presence. It was definitely a learning lesson for sure. But before we get to that, I've got some news that I'm still processing in this moment. I, over the weekend, I went away to Joshua Tree to my sister's place to just kind of relax and get off of the computers and get away from notifications and distractions on all that and just kind of take a break. Of course, I found myself going back and checking my email one this was Sunday morning, I believe. And for whatever reason, I was just pulled to, I was like, all right, I'll just check real quick. So I checked and this time it actually turned out to be a good thing. I saw somebody had message me saying, hey, oh my god, I can't believe what just happened. Your one-step closer to getting the rock on your podcast. From there, I was like, I knew this was something happened. I just started to get a little bit nervous and I'm like, wait, what is this? What's going on? And then I, I didn't have Twitter in my phone, so I downloaded it. I go on Twitter and I see that the rock retweeted and replied to a post that I had made on, it was, I think, Friday. And I don't know, I don't, like I said, I'm still processing what happened. I kind of freaked out. But nuts, I couldn't believe it. Like, this has been a year in the works I've been trying to get a hold of the rock in any way possible. And I haven't been doing it in like a way that's spammy or gross or trying to hack the algorithm to, to get heard. This was just me every once in a while, reaching out to him, making videos. You guys have kept along, if you've been listening to the podcast for even the past couple months, you know that I've been putting a lot of work into this. Oh my god. So he responds and it was, it was amazing. I've got a video on my YouTube channel because when I check it out where I break down exactly what we said back and forth. It's, it's a matter of 15 second or 20 second conversation between the two of us and really only just two tweets back and forth, but this, it fires me up so much. I, I, I, I feel like I'm one step closer to getting him on the podcast. I don't know if I mentioned on this, but like, you know, I've mentioned it on every other episode, but if you're tuning into the first time, I've got this crazy code to get the rock as a guest on my podcast. So I, you know, you guys know what this means to me. This is crazy. This isn't sane. I just, uh, okay, I'm going, that's all I'm going to say about that. Go to the video on YouTube. You can check it out later and, uh, you could see my reaction. My sister actually was recording pretty much the moment that I found out. So, uh, that was a lot of fun. Anyway, not the distract from this episode, which was truly an amazing, special episode. One of my favorites so far. To do this is so brilliant, so intelligent, and he's got so much experience, uh, in the game of just media, you know, coming from MTV years and years ago, and that was the, you know, one of the biggest media outlets in the world. Now we're just, you know, media is fragmented, it's so much. So, our conversation really delves into so many topics that are valuable to creators today. So, anyway, I'm going to stop blabbering. This is my conversation with Caduce, enjoy the show. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creators to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matt the Avela, and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. And this coffee's super tempting, by the way. I think I might actually have developed an addiction to coffee. I definitely have one. If you've just covered terms with it, you're a piece of it. Well, you know, like we were just talking about Rich Roll, like, and he actually makes a differentiation between like addiction versus, I don't know what you would call the coffee thing, but like, addiction for him is something that's like negative, that really is a detriment to your life, and I don't think that coffee is detrimental to my life in a serious way. Sure. You know what I mean? Like crack. Yeah, yeah. It's not crack. You know what I mean? I don't know. I don't really, it doesn't bother me that I require coffee to kind of get some energy going. Yeah. At this point, and this actually is going to sound like an addiction, but it's the not coffee that is worse than the drinking of the coffee. Oh, gosh. Just when you're not on coffee, you feel like shit. Yeah, exactly. So it just brings me to neutral. And that's definitely an addiction. And by the way, another person, I know that you've interviewed Luke Broadrick. Oh, no way. Yeah. Yeah. We toured through South America together with the Jonas Brothers. Oh, wow. I was doing a documentary project with AOL, where the idea was that I was going to be like a fly on the wall, and I was going to kind of give the fans a different access for a tour experience. And so I was shooting with, remember the flip cam? Oh, yeah. No, I hit that in college. I was like, yeah. I would run around a party and shoot that. So we had a proper crew, and also me with this flip cam. So it was like this combo of both vantage points, and Luke was one of the guys I remember from connecting with, and a bunch of different people from the whole tour that we went through South America together for like, I was like a month and a half. Wow. So really wild ride. So when I saw Luke there, I was like, yeah, that was, it was the tri-factor, was Asher, Carolyn, and Luke. That was like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Luke is great. He's such a good dude. Yeah. It's just nice to, that's the best part about like doing this kind of thing. And especially in person is because you, you make these connections, you meet people in person. They otherwise wouldn't. Like you can hop on the phone, and you know, I can ask 20 questions, but at the end of the day, I think it's about that for sure, for sure. Well, anyway, thanks so much for coming on the podcast. I was appreciate you being here. Where do we start? I don't know where to start, man. I don't know where to start, because like your career, like you've been in the game, and you've been doing your thing for a very long time. I remember watching your shit back in the day, like watching you on TRL, that, because at the time that was like it, you know, you think about media and how it's changed today. It's, it's wild, how different it is, but back then, for people, you know, my age at the time, being in high school, MTV was like, I don't think you had any other platforms at the time. The irony is that I grew up in Canada, and I watched from much music. So I actually became an MTV VJ before I had even really watched MTV. So all of a sudden, I was all of a sudden exposed to being in the center of the pop culture zeitgeist, and having really no frame of reference for what I was stepping into. So it was a quantum leap for me, and totally rattled me because I was not necessarily as confident as I have now, back then, and can you imagine a kid from Canada, 20 years old, having that kind of a platform, and it brought up every bit of insecurity, and I remember feeling like they're going to figure me out any minute now. I had imposter syndrome, like you wouldn't believe, I'm just happy to be here. Nobody figured out that I'm actually not really qualified for this job, and so yeah, thinking back, that comes up first, because that was the first wave of my experience with MTV, and of course, thankfully enough time on camera, had me settle in and get more comfortable my own skin, and enough feedback from people, but man, MTV was a really challenging time for me to own my worth, and being amongst people like Justin Timberlick and Jay-Z and Stevie Wonder on a daily basis has a way of bringing up insecurities in a really ironic way. Yeah, right, because at the same time you're there, you're interviewing them, you're in the room with these people, but there's got to be some insecurities because you're so young, they have accomplished so much, and then it's like, where do you fit in the mix? Totally, so, you know, it was a mixture of finding my way as a human in the world, and also being in the greatest playground on Earth at the time, so I loved it. I definitely learned a ton about different types of music. At the time, I was such a die-hard hip-hop fan when I got on MTV. I remember the radio station where I was doing my radio show to start at my career. I was doing a show called The Breakdown Show, and all it was was hip-hop, like Wu-Tang, Klan, and Nas, and we were clown stuff, like Britney Spears, and it's the next thing you know about TRL, interviewing Britney Spears, and it's sync. So it confronted that part of me, too, that had some sort of purest hip-hop elitism, really, and then I realized, oh, they're actually awesome people, and I started to open up to the different types of music, too, so it was a really great experience. Isn't it what's cool about it, because I could find myself falling into that trap, too, and even, you know, but doing this podcast and starting to just doing films and interviewing people, and from different backgrounds, you, and also being a creator, you start to judge people a lot less. You start to be like, you know, like, even if it may not be for you, you can still respect what that artist is doing, you can respect the craft, you can respect what they've been able to accomplish, and it's like, that's why, you know, I feel like you see a lot of people who, you know, might hate and troll and criticize online, and I'm like, those aren't the creators. It's never a creator. It's a critics. Yeah. It's the critics, and it's the people that maybe deep down, they actually want to be making stuff, but they're not, that stuff comes out, but it is, it's definitely nice to be in a position where you can, where you're making, and also respecting other people's craft. Totally. Yeah, it's real comfortable to be on the sidelines and see other people in the arena. I definitely think that's the comfort zone, but yeah, I do think that we're all creators at heart. I think we all want to offer something to the world, make it better than we found it. And I think that the people who are like you, creating movies like minimalism are the ones who are in the arena, making a difference. So that's enough to you, man. As you're like, praising whatever I did at TRL, I'm like, let me tell you something about what minimalism did for me, because I just watched the movie recently, and my lady my fiance actually told me about the film a while ago, and it's been fun at the time, but finally watched it, and it's such an important movie. I feel like we really do live in these times that people glorify stuff still. Even as a movie like yours is penetrated in my circles, and I think a lot of people still have this vapid need to validate something with things, and it's like so much different to be on the other side of that. I feel like at one point I definitely need a validation externally. And I'm just so grateful for things like minimalism for helping to continue the journey of actually realizing what matters in life and really celebrating that focusing on that. So thank you for that. Thanks, man. I appreciate that really means a lot to me. Now, I think that that pole, and it's something that I've been, I've kind of stepped out of for a while. Of course, there are poles for certain things, and it's like new iPhone comes out. I'm not like, I don't have no emotion. I'm like, oh, that's pretty cool. The beveled edges are a little bit different, or whatever. So there is some of that, I think the biggest thing for me in the beginning was it was redefining my idea of what success was, just because, and this is like, you know, it's probably at that age where I'm like watching TRL, I'm like in high school, and I'm just thinking like, oh, like, I need to do the XYZ before I could be happy. Like I need to achieve these things, I need to get the house, the car, and all this, then I'll be happy. And then for me, like learning about minimalism, I was like, the first thing which was like, wait a minute, like I don't have to go down that path, I don't have to do all that. I can actually just be, because like, I had enough stuff, I had enough things to be happy at the time. So it's like, of course, there's stuff that I want to accomplish. You know, I had goals and, you know, some places that I wanted to go with my career, but at the same time, I'm like, I could still be content, I could still be fulfilled right now. Sure. And I think a lot of people have that drive that like status is pretty big for a lot of people, right? It's like keeping up with the Joneses and now it's tenfold because Instagram, Twitter, we see all this all the time and everybody's presenting like the perfect image of themselves. Oh my God, it's such a big illusion. Really? I don't know anybody that's posting the rust and most vulnerable parts of themselves. It's still presentation of vulnerability. It's like, yeah, let's just, let me give you this strategically, because I know it'll open you up to whatever I'm selling on some level. So yeah. No, that dude, that's so true. It's like, you, you know, just one single tear in the mirror coming down, it's like, how do you, that's a, that's a tough thing though, right? It's like, you know, it seems like a big part of your work and what you're doing now, it's about allowing people to open themselves up and be in a vulnerable place. I just found that vulnerability for me was a key to freedom. When I shared the stuff that I held as shameful, I realized that, oh, people don't necessarily hold it the same way that I do in contempt or judgment necessarily. There's actually a lot of empathy that emerges that surprised me when I actually started to share the stuff that I thought was shadowy and unlovable. And the next thing you know, it didn't have power over me, and I got my power back from having those things in the closet. And then I got to actually laugh of myself and not take myself so seriously, so it's been a whole other quality life for me and that journey myself. So I know that being in the game that I've been in and television and media, that there is no training to actually support people in becoming free of the things that hold us back for being transparent on camera. And really who we are, I think there's some level of wanting to be right, be perfect, being control and garnered the validation and applause and all those things that actually on some level do imprison us from who we could be all together. And so that's what the camera ready is, it's all about really becoming free. Yeah, talking about camera ready too, like as a step back, like when did you decide that this is something that you wanted to pursue and create, and then how does it actually take shape in the real world? So for me, there was a realization that happened when I was about to shoot a pilot with Annie at the time. And I remember the day before we started rolling tape on it, I had my dad in town. And he was in the green room with me, and the stage manager came knocked on the green room door and asked me if I wanted to rehearsal. This was my time slot to rehearse and my dad was about to leave and I felt pretty confident that I could get up there the next day and do the hosting job as I've always done for years and years and years. There's a little bit of arrogance actually in there. I was not aware that that was really what was playing, but yeah, I did not take the opportunity to rehearse. And so the day of, there I am about to go on stage for the singing competition show and I have a lot of bells and whistles, a lot of things for a host to manage. And I realized just how unprepared I was about two minutes out from being on camera. And I went into a nervous breakdown. You would not believe I felt like I was imploding and I ran to the bathroom until the stage manager gave me a minute, I go to the bathroom and I felt like I was about to collapse. And I went to the stall and I sat there and I held my head and I was like, how did I get here? And that was a turning point that I realized there is something else going on here. I have not addressed. And so I realized that through all of the success I had, I still hadn't actually gotten free of the things that would have me in a position that I felt unprepared. And so the question for me was then, how do I prepare myself and feel as confident, no matter what the situation is? And so I ended up doing personal development trainings and being a seeker of that freedom led me to doing a lot of different personal development work, whether it was a 10 day silent meditation retreat or a seminar or reading books like Conversations with God. I did a lot of different work that added up to me finally getting to a point where all I wanted to do was support other people to get to this level of freedom. And so I thought, well, I don't really see these kinds of trainings in the world that I've been in. And so maybe I can create a fusion, something that takes the best of that medium of self-actualization and create something that is for people who are interested in impacting their audience as confidently as possible. And so we created Camera Ready, my partner and I, we both had the same experience in television. She also worked in television for over 16 years and found herself privately insecure in a lot of moments. And so we decided, let's create something that really harbors and supports people to level up and become their best self on camera and any other scenario in life. Personal development in general, I feel like a lot of people have like a at first, they have kind of almost like a cringe, like almost like a pullback. I wonder why that is and I had that for myself and it's funny enough, like out of all the books to kind of get me into personal development was Neil Strauss is the game, just because I was in college and not good with girls and I was like, let me just check this out. I'll see what this is all about but then it was, it just kind of opened me up to starting to improve and better myself and I'm like, there are so many different ways that I could be a better person, I could show up in the world and I can work harder and do these things to actually be the best version of myself, a lot of I think personal development and self-help get a bad rap. Because what's better than working on yourself and trying to show up in the world in a better way? Totally. So have you always had that kind of resistance to personal development before that? Because you're saying you're kind of had this arrogance almost built up, like why would you ever pick up a book to try to learn how to become a better speaker? You're like, I've been doing this shit for years. Yeah, you know, at the core of it, when I think about it, we could definitely go down the rabbit hole of childhood and all the things that were in influence there but what it comes down to is I was really unwilling to reveal myself and actually say, actually, I need some help, I need some help, I had a lot of pride and a lot of walls and so it was all of that stuff that got in the way for me to just say, okay, I'm gonna go ahead and eat a little humble pie and let it be delicious and partake in these amazing trainings that are designed to support me to break through stuff that I haven't been able to otherwise up in out here in the world and even at a really high level of success, having been on national television and getting awards, it's like, well, if that doesn't mount to me actually feeling good, then was it all worth? And so finally getting to that point with that breakdown that I had backstage at that pilot shoot, it was really a wakeup call and so ideally it doesn't take that for people that actually say, okay, I'm gonna work on myself, yeah, it doesn't need to come from that place, ideally it's just the desire to constantly level up, to always look at what is the next level and not feel like it needs to come from some breakdown, so really, it's a conversation of human development and how we can always evolve, imagine to staying in a stagnant state and feeling like that, because I have a certain level of success, then I'll just stay right here and kind of plateauing, I mean, that's really the alternative to something like personal development, it can come in a lot of different forms, I mean, camera ready is technically professional development, but really we have a lot of ingredients of personal development, so finally you mentioned Neil Strauss by the way, he's actually a client. Oh, you're a friend. Yeah, yeah, that's amazing, yeah, what is the difference between doing the, like, say if I just pick up a, you know, Tony Robbins audio tape versus something like yours, which is more immersive, it's in person, what was your personal experience doing that, and then, you know, what led you to want to do more of these kind of retreats? Well, I think there's a difference between informational content and transformational content, and what we've noticed is that to break through to another level, it's quicker to do it experientially, to have an immersive experience to not just be reading about it and conceptualizing about it or thinking about it, but actually having a practice ground for it and a place to experience myself as it getting feedback about it, really having that playground, it makes all the difference in the world for the clients that we work with. And for me, I've seen it just work wonders, and I think you can get there by just reading books and listening to the audio, Tony Robbins, but I think it's just a rocket ship being able to do it amongst peers who are supportive and can point out blind spots. I think that's the biggest piece is that it really is an arena that we can actually show up and in real time understand what our blind spots are. We all have them, so it's just whether we're opening up to a medium where we can actually have stuff pointed out to us in a loving way, ideally, I think sometimes people really get twisted in terms of coaching environments and sometimes those environments are a confronting place for people just inherently, like if I'm going to put myself out there in front of people, there's something already kind of terrifying about that, but I do feel like what we do a camera ready is really making a point of creating an environment where we focus on what works more than anything because what we found is essentially what we're doing is providing a mirror, a feedback loop that we oftentimes don't really get in our realize. I think sometimes we have friends who are making a point of telling us the things that we want to know. We want to know how we show up, what works and what doesn't, but are we having those conversations with the people around us and actually having the courage to say the things that would actually make a difference with somebody, like how often do you make a point of saying to somebody, here's what I'm noticing not working. It's tough, it's a challenging thing because A is the person coachable? Is it a arena for that conversation? Is there an opening for it? It depends, depends on how you are. Are you somebody who is in demand for feedback and also curious and open and a space for somebody to really give you the honest truth? And so what we've noticed is there's a gap in that. There's not enough of that going on, so people are going about their lives, unconscious to the things that we make them conscious about. That's the one thing that I've noticed both in my professional and personal life has been, like the only time I really screw up so bad or I look back on like how did that happen? It's because I didn't have the difficult conversation or I didn't communicate enough. And like for professional stuff it's like just over communicate, make sure it's very the client knows very clear exactly when you're going to deliver and everything that needs to be done from the point of starting to finishing. And the same thing in personal lives and a lot of times dating early on, there's almost you don't want to talk too much, you don't want to ask too many questions because you don't want to seem like you're too needy or but then when you're able to open up and you're able to have those difficult conversations and the conversations that may be uncomfortable or awkward then you learn so much more. Then all of a sudden kind of the wall start breaking down and then but it's a continuous process because you're never just there. You're like okay I asked all the questions I need to ask and now I'm done. Certain things will creep in, there's certain walls that will probably start to build back up over time and then it's just like your job to kind of keep breaking it down and keep asking questions and keep moving forward. Totally. It's a lifetime thing. I still find myself behaving in such a way where it's almost as if I forgot every bit of what I teach at this point and I need to wake up reset and commit to it again and it's a humbling thing but it's a beautiful thing because it's like the magic of life. We always are at choice and there's always the temptation to the other than our best self so it's like how could we develop a discipline and support system to actually constantly be our best self. In terms of say somebody leaves there workshops and retreats do you do both or how does it? Yeah so camera ready is a three day workshop that starts the journey and then to follow up camera ready. We have a program called Level Up and that's a mutual selection process based on how people show up in the weekend but it's a really awesome three month journey the follows up camera ready and so it's really a place to make sure we integrate everything that got done in the weekend because there's a lot of workshops where you'll pop out of the weekend and you'll feel all of this new empowerment and you may not feel quite like that in a month so what happens then and so really for us it's great to have a powerful weekend but it's even more important that it actually impacts your life and the results are there at the end of the day and so level up is all about all of that and really integrating the results and so it's the three day training camera ready and then level up as the follow up with three month journey and then we have a training also for facilitators who are in development who want to actually facilitate what we do and so we're doing that as well so it's awesome because we have a real container for people to really constantly find a new ground how long have you been doing it for it's been a year oh really it's that it's that new yeah what if you learn because like before this you didn't do much business entrepreneurial type stuff did you it was mostly like the hosting acting and and I think you did a little bit of directing yeah I did some music video directing when I was doing something in our work with interscope in my space records and so for me it was the very first time that I created something from nothing from the ground up because I think I having a production company just for tax purposes is different I like literally the best thing I did for my business was instead of being Matt D. Avilla videographer it was being at the time black box films it's like because clients will pay more money and it's like but it's still like it's just me and it's not really doesn't feel like a company doesn't feel like a business but yeah so what did you learn like over the past year just kind of get into it tons I've learned a lot about the importance of asking a lot of questions of clients so making sure that not only on the intake but also on the outtake what's going on for them like why are they coming to the training what is the objective they have going in their expectations and then what happened for them what actually got translated into their experience and all of that feedback on the back end so really importance of on both sides of the experience getting as much information about what was absorbed because we've designed the training we facilitate the training but we've never actually taken the training so unless we get really curious about the experience then there still might be some blind spots for us so as we are always preaching about the importance of being open to feedback and a demand for feedback the importance of feedback is something that we also value for ourselves in the business and how we run our training so that's probably the top line of what we're learning is just how it's always available when we ask and what about it seems like your your top priority is just litter like focusing on the changes that you're making the transformations that you're looking to to make and that the relationship with the clients which I think the most important thing when the actual business side of things and actually like creating the structure and like going about all of that stuff who did you go to for advice and like what was some of the things that because I'm sure you're the kind of person and I remember I did this when I started a podcast and like hey Josh how do I do this like what what would you suggest like are the first two three steps so it's like how did that actually start to materialize and do a thing well we are a coaching company that actually believes in coaching for ourselves to for business and so we hired a business coach somebody that we had referred to us and we hit it off in our first meeting and so we've got support from her for almost a year now to make sure that the structure all the business elements are there and so we have some proper scaffolding for what we're building because what happens in the room is one thing with clients but then there's all this other stuff that you administrative stuff and yeah we're learning still it's a good time you know what that's the thing is like I talked to so many entrepreneurs and freelancers and I'm always like so like are you like pretty good with your receipts and how you're like organized everything I have yet to meet somebody who's like organized with their taxes and their receipts I'm I would say I'm probably the most organized but even then I still have this like oh look I didn't you know keep that receipt from that time I went to Wendy's when I was on the road like three years ago the IRS is going to find me hopefully they don't listen to this but yeah it's like you really have to I think take control and and like if you don't like doing that stuff or if you don't have experience doing it find somebody else that that can't obviously in the beginning it's hard for a lot of people it's like if you're just starting grassroots you have no money no funding no nothing you can't hire a business developer you got to do it all yourself and really immerse yourself but you just got to take the time to learn it totally and it's great actually to make a point of learning all this stuff because now as we're building out the team I can talk intelligently about all the elements that I've been doing for the past year rather than just delegating and having no idea what it actually is to implement the things that I'm asking of them so we can really walk through it together and I can say well this is what's worked and what hasn't worked and the business so far and so it's a different kind of dynamic so I'm glad that we've really taken a time to lay the foundation down ourselves and then now we're building out of the team so it's it's all a big learning and it's it's definitely going to ease the process to have more people to far the party that's been sure what are the kind of clients that that come to you is it all people that are you know in some kind of hosting your acting type position or you see in people that are like just hey I make YouTube videos and I do this and that well it's a media training so we get anybody who's interested in having a more powerful presence on media so it's really everybody we get everybody from tech entrepreneurs to actresses to poets to activists so it's a real wide array of people the thing that we look for because it's a curation process we make it real job of intentionally making the room full of people that actually inspire us so it's not just that anybody can come it's it's people who we really can get behind people that we really feel like are up to something that is going to actually make a difference in the world so I think that's probably the biggest common denominator is it's someone who inspires us and that can come in a lot of different forms and does but mainly it's entrepreneurs educators and artists if I can not shell it yeah right I don't know if you do a lot of one on once but like say right now we were doing like a one-on-one coaching session how does that play out like what questions you ask me how do you how do you go about that process the first question is will be valuable to focus on right now and in terms of okay so like we're going to sit down yeah and that you ask me what I'm what should I be what should what do I feel like I need to work on yep like where do I need to improve it we're actually going to do this now yeah let's do what where do I want to improve um I'm perfect man it's like you know I think like a lot of people I do have a lot of insecurities and I get anxious before interviews and like I've done over 50 of them now so I feel like I you know I feel a lot better when I head into them but it's like the unknown and the uncertainty I prep and I have questions ready knowing that when it you know it doesn't really matter that much I can prep a hundred questions but at the end of the day I really want this to be an authentic conversation I need to throw those away and just kind of be in the moment so I think it's the anxiousness of dealing with uncertainty this is my big thing that I have struggled with it's gotten better you know I mean the more you do it it's gotten better but it's definitely something that comes up for every interview what if anxiety wasn't a bad thing yeah but it's bad well what how would I reframe anxiety to be a good thing so there's a study done and it hooked up two people to the same roller coaster ride so you know all those things that people that are reading your body physiology hook up two people on the same roller coaster ride one person had the exact same thing going on physiologically as the other person and they interpreted it as oh my god am I gonna die is this thing not gonna work I'm gonna fly off the side of this thing anxiety the other person the exact same experience the exact same physiological response but they interpreted the best ride ever so what does that tell you yeah I'd see that in it this is a reframing and that's like if you think about exercise and working out I thought about this before where I like I go to the gym I work out I like I'm in sheer pain while I'm lifting weights but I don't see it as pain yeah I see it as like growth I see it like I actually enjoy that process but if I was just if I was just lying down and all of a sudden I didn't know where my muscles started hurting like they do during the middle of a bench press I'd be like what I'm dying what's happening to me oh that's a tough that's a tough one man this is I guess is what you do right it's like the deep work it's like how do you rewire that though how do you go out that process that's where the practice comes in because if I'm able to actually notice that that energy can be reframed as something that is actually fuel I feel it too and I've just practiced the interpretation that oh this means that what's happening here matters it matters enough that I care and then I have all this energy about it and it's here to support me and it's not just a pep talk I actually feel like it becomes like a fire for me to channel and when I don't feel that I actually wonder should I be here right because it doesn't seem to be a no sticks involved it doesn't seem to matter enough and that's where I need to maybe check off my why am I here box why does this matter box before I even do it and then create some motivation for myself and some energy for myself wow yeah that's so true imagine like yeah if before you know say before any interview I do or anything I'm I'm doing that's kind of pushing myself further if I well first of all if if if I didn't feel anything if I didn't have a little bit of anxiousness anxiety we could call we could actually rephrase and say excitement right if I don't have that kind of excitement for what I was about to do that's like called being stuck you know what I mean like when I was doing wedding videos like there was a point where like it was exciting to go out and shoot something and then and create this thing and it was a lot of fun but then eventually got to a point where it's like you had to have that excitement and it was like what can I do next to kind of push myself a little bit further totally so yeah if it does come to a point where like doing these interviews or anything doesn't have that element of excitement then maybe that's the time to kind of step things up or or think about it differently totally absolutely yeah I think it's a great compass actually I'd actually see fear as my North Star I seek it out now so there's skydiving that was offered to me a couple years ago and it was someone was always terrified about I thought why am I going to jump out of a plane what is what the heck what kind of a crazy suicidal thought is that and sure enough a friend of mine invited me to something that was just too good to say no to it was everything set up it was for a good cause it was like okay yeah god damn it so there I am at the skydiving place and of course I'm sitting there in the lobby as they prepare us and they're playing us this video this orientation video going down the line of basically what we need to be mindful of and the guy who's talking about it looks like a serial killer and I'm like this is not helpful at all and so the anxiety keeps building anxiety yeah and so there we are getting strapped in and so the guy who's going to be on my back and actually pulling the shoot then starts telling me about his experience and he says you know I'm glad you feel this way too because this is my first day and actually I'm a little nervous too and I go okay and back my head I'm thinking it is our another guy that could be on the back of the series and he starts cracking up that's obviously messing with me and I'm like okay all right now I got a joke or it's gonna be on my back and sure enough though that experience was so defining for me because I remember being up there it was one of the highest drops in North America actually was 18,000 feet and I remember I was about to jump out of this plane and the rush of energy came over me and it was completely logical to think that this is gonna quite to me dying right because this is something that hundreds and thousands of people have done and so I don't have that thought though I just remember feeling terrified I remember feeling all the fighter fly like the damn bear was about to tear my face off and I was truly gonna die the shoot was not gonna work and I was gonna be splattered all over the floor and then I jump the sky my back and I definitely felt that feeling as the wind was blowing up in my face and I'm like sure I'm still gonna die and then the shoot gets open and I just remember feeling like oh my god I just robbed myself of potentially the most exhilarating experience of my life and in that moment I realized that that acronym that goes around like a cliche that fear is false evidence appearing real is something that robbed so many of us of the nectar of life like the most incredible experiences like those moments where you're on your first date and you had a great date and for some reason you don't lean in and kiss her because that fear that anxiety so what if we could reframe that and that actually points to the greatest moment of your life like that's the indicator that feeling is not anxiety at all it's like oh here we are yeah you need the moment you need to step into it yeah I've had I had actually you know in part like around the time when I was reading the game and getting into that like it was because I was I developed anxiety around dating and like the longer you go without facing that the worse and worse and worse it gets and that's why people have like fear of heights or fear of jumping on a plane whatever it is it's because it's there they have this idea and then they're like no never gonna do that and then after 15 years of saying that never gonna do that all of a sudden it's monumental and then when you like even think about it when you think about spiders whatever it is then your whole body just you feel and anxiety will take over totally you have to kind of catch it right away even like you're you're probably gonna feel like oh it's probably too too long at this point like I you know at this point I'm definitely never gonna do a public speaking event it was like no you just gotta do that shit right now because then it's gonna be way worse and Tony is totally yeah I go by this motto now that when fear is present the teachers in the room it's pointing to something I get to learn and ultimately grow into and it could be the most glorious thing why don't we love the movies we love because it's somebody that's overcoming fear most of the time and winning the girl or winning the championship or yeah vanquishing the other opponent or whatever it is right but that there's that there's that breakthrough through fear and so we had to be the heroes of our own movies right it's not absence of fear the fear is there like the hero is scared right and they just have to get through it and that's what makes them that's hero that's exactly yeah um so yeah obviously the past year you've been doing camera ready you do a lot of other stuff too like how how how do you go about finding that balance and and there's only so much time in the day to get the things done that you want to get done so like how do you prioritize and and how do you find your north star for your work thankfully I have a fiance who is fierce about our work life balance yeah if you work for her I would be 24 seven with it because I love what I do so I don't even see it as work but I do see when we do take the time to go on a date and get an exhale from what we do with camera ready that it supports it supports the work because then I feel refreshed rejuvenated I oftentimes actually have more clarity about things that maybe I've gone down the rabbit hole and been banging my head on a wall about and now all of a sudden because I take a break it actually becomes that much easier to work so I actually still rationalize it through the lens of how is it going to support work yeah ironically but it's still but I do think that having having someone in my life like her her name is Carmina and she's been a godsend man she's been amazing uh just yeah the the value of having someone like that in my life has been exponential because I did have a major imbalance work life there was no such thing it was really all work and so yeah she's been a big big breath of fresh air it really is I mean finding a partner or somebody that you know like you guys you actually work together yeah so but but for me and my partner and Natalie we don't work together but it's the support system and like whether it's a partner or if somebody else I think a partner is easier because they live with you they're there with you all the time they see you in your good days and you're bad and they know when you're working a little bit too hard or they can help and push you when you need a little bit of encouragement when you're feeling doubt but it's like yeah it's it's still invaluable totally yeah totally yeah so I'm a big fan of relationships now I never thought I'd see the day by the way I'd be such an advocate for relationships because I was a chronic data when I was about 20's oh my god it was a joke to some of my friends are like how many dates have you been on this week right six yeah did you go on like three it was absurd so yeah and it was it wasn't like I was a playboy or anything I actually did even sounds like sounds like you were a playboy I wish I wish I had a lot of stories to tell that but now I was more so that I actually think that that's where I got my validation like the ability to just even get the date with the hot girl was an effort for me to feel like all right I'm doing something and of course I wasted hours and hours on dates that didn't result in anything but now thankfully I've gotten over that stuff that needed validation and have a girl a woman like Carmen has been such a gift yeah there it's I think obviously like when you look at the difference between men and women I think we each go through different things and I think that's probably one that's more like male the male leaning side of things where you feel like you need to go out and day and we were talking about vulnerability I think that's just something that guys have a lot of trouble with like just opening up and being themselves and and being able to to be vulnerable and and you know own up when they make mistakes because it's like you think that is it's like it's like a very traditional world view it's like it's those things that are part of our culture and society like you think about like the 50s and 60s it's like that's every man was there at least like 90 percent it was way tipping the scale in terms of hold your emotions back don't you know don't speak up don't whatever whatever it is it's not mainly to do that it's not man up man up right but then but it seems like it's part of like the the growing zeitgeist now and people talk about that like just certain ideas kind of get out there and eat like Lewis house just put out his book about it and it's kind of taken off that mask and and being vulnerable have you have you noticed that like it seems like people were talking about it more over sure in our circles so sometimes she'll like it's a little bit misleading because we are pretty sweet bubble here in L.A. New York but yeah do you think that there's an importance of it especially now that we see a guy like Donald Trump in office who is such an example of that sort of quintessential um right your wrong domineering control power play guy that ultimately is just offending everyone right now so I think he's like this glaring symptom of what the antithetical to being a truly holistic well-rounded human is I mean he's a guy that's just one big volcano right and I think that's like on the extreme side the opposite of a vulnerable man who's able to express himself throughout the day in a healthy way such that he doesn't have repressed emotions that come out in talking smack about another world leader yeah so I think that it's in some ways it's a blessing that we have Donald Trump in because he's showing us he's showing us ourselves he's a product of us and on some level I feel responsible that Donald Trump is an office the fact that I have at times lost my cool and said something offensive to somebody and perpetrated some level of separation and judgment and all that stuff it's like in the zeitgeist as well yeah so I think it's like us collectively looking at where we've kind of hit rock bottom with that model of what it means to be a man and now we get to really change things we really do yeah and if you think about it there's conversations now like this that we're not that we weren't having before he was in office yeah that's we all want to go political I don't this the first time I've ever got into it but like I actually um in terms of like media consumption like that it had me kind of going for a while where like checking every day checking the news what the hell did he do today and then you know lately it's you know luckily I have worked that I'm really passionate about that I love and then it's a matter of kind of putting that to the side and there's a balance between being informed and letting that information run your life totally and it's like people that watch a baseball game and then all of a sudden you know their team loses then they're depressed they feel it inside they become so attached to the outcome of this game that other people are playing that it actually affects your well being and it's like I get it like obviously like if you're watching the world series or big playoff game there's gonna be that sense of heightened you know emotion but but you can't let it just run your life and you can't let politics and things that are outside of your control run your life totally amen to that it's tough though sometimes I actually heard the other day from a lift driver I was talking to that they have in LA fitness gyms taken away what they were playing on the on screens on the TV's they were showing Fox News and because people were feeling so agitated as they were watching Fox News on the treadmill they've taken off Fox News yeah it doesn't even need to be Fox anymore it's just anytime you look at the the screen the news and you just see like North Korea Trump you're like god damn it what's how I can't get away from it I actually there's some gyms that like just don't have TVs those are my favorite like just come I'm trying to work out like I don't need to be like just sedated like there's doing nothing for the motivation of me getting into this workout at all right if anything it might channel some anger and then that would have me pump up even more that's true yeah that's sure it might push you a little bit do you uh do you have like a workout routine that you you're into or do you yoga I just do you yeah and then once in a while I'll jog or play basketball that's what I get for cardio but yeah yoga and actually that's been such a big difference for me too with getting in front of camera actually and that's one of the biggest things I recommend to clients if they don't have a yoga practice get it because that is like the greatest practice ground to notice our breath and how important our breath is as we move into these uncomfortable places outside of our comfort zone and just the other day I was going into meet with production company about a new show and so they had the finalists that were up for this hosting job all going in front of the camera and doing a screen test and to see who's gonna be the guy to host the show and I remember thinking gosh I'm so glad I had my yoga this morning because here I am feeling all the feelings yeah and being able to breathe into them made all the difference in the world and so boom oxygenating the brain the importance of the basics in those moments makes a world of difference yeah I haven't you know I've done like a little bit like the P90X like power yoga like the manly man yoga I haven't like done legit yoga I really want to I like the idea of like having a workout routine that that also helps to center you and kind of calm you down as hard as much as it is a tough workout from what I've seen and heard oh yeah so as much from my body as it is from my mind that's my therapy yeah my family would never see the end of it the fight I moved out to LA I start doing yoga I did a 30 day vegan diet because the rich roles on the podcast was like let me try vegan for 30 days so I'm like I'm full LA now oh yeah just go ahead and embrace it right now I screw it yeah like the I don't know I do want to try yoga though but it's like I don't know it's just an a game changer has it yeah yeah do people do yoga like on a regular basis they they speak very highly of it well I was so restless before I did yoga I had all this anxiety actually and I remember understanding the value of meditation and wanting to practice it I would sit down I had a teacher teach me and then I sit down and inevitably I'd be so restless thinking about my to-do list that I couldn't get through two minutes of meditation but yoga was the gateway for me to eventually get to the point where I could actually have a serious meditation practice because I had at least gotten a handle on that calm and that centeredness that supports me sit my butt down for more than two minutes so yeah all of that is super valuable it really is such a destresser and it optimizes everything yeah isn't that such a problem like you know yoga problem when you try to sit down you can't sit down for a minute two minutes without a thing without like a screen or without just crazy thoughts just kind of popping into your head yeah and you know it's one of the things like you're saying you gotta you gotta rebuild relearn and kind of keep going through these things because you know I've had a practice before of meditation and you know a daily practice and these days I don't do it as much but then you know everyone's a while you know you shouldn't wait until you get overwhelmed to do it sure but it was like I was you know I just need to sit down relax you know have some tea and then meditate 15 minutes and I couldn't get through a minute and isn't it crazy just like or because it's the wiring of our breaking mind it's called the monkey mind right it just goes and goes and goes and then so you know I think those kind of daily practices where you can kind of step back also yeah I was just talking about this with Natalie was that I'm like wow like everything feels like it's going by so fast like shit we've been in LA for over six seven months now it feels like that was yesterday and it's like I just don't want to feel like my life kind of flu bot yeah and I think that's what Dan Harris was saying was that like that helps meditation helps because it kind of it slows down your entire day and if you bring that practice in every day it's not going to feel like overwhelmed totally yeah absolutely that's the key man yeah being present for our own life right you want to do an audience question cool yeah a question here from Rick Brewer great if you guys want to send in your questions you can send them into hello at Mattyvella.com I've been doing videos or people have been sending in videos because you know obviously this podcast is very much video focused so I'm trying to get people send videos obviously some people aren't camera ready so if you want to send an audio you can do that as well here we got one from Rick Brewer hi Matt this is Rick Brewer from Bloomington Indiana and I am a radio producer and I am also in graduate school for the humanities and I originally came to graduate school with the idea of becoming an academic getting my PhD the whole nine yards but I discovered that radio and podcasts production my hobby is what I truly want to do and I've been putting a significant amount of time into developing a portfolio making connections in the industry and so on and so forth and I'm putting much less time into the academic side of my life you know classes homework papers etc so I'm kind of conflicted I feel a little guilty putting more time into my hobby and what my true career aspirations are as opposed to what I came to university for so I guess my question is to you and your guest is do you have any advice about transitioning from one career to another how to approach it how do I go about sort of putting more time into my career or academic so I guess I'm just really conflicted and was just curious about any advice about transitioning from one career to another thanks Matt love the show great all right Rick Brewer what do you think that's a great question because clearly there's an investment that he's made in the track that he's been on right the the the prescriptive traditional model of education but he's finding this new passion so it sounds like it's a really clear delineation it's like this fork in the road do I go along with what I'd signed up for thought would be valuable and discovered not really igniting my passion or do I do the thing that's like clearly lighting my world on fire and I get excited about and I was quote Joseph Campbell he really boiled down all his work so simply for us follow your bliss and it could be that simple because I think what gets in the way of it is feeling like we are tethered to our prior commitments we thought would be the thing and then it's important to be present to our own life and what we're noticing and discovering and journey and realizing oh that ain't it once we identify that ain't it being able to release the attachment is the key and I feel like sometimes I just like getting physical with it because I feel like I'm a visual error and I think that like when I'm attached to something playing out the way I think it's gonna play out I'm like this I'm like gripping onto my expectation for it my my investment in it my commitment to it and then I'm not even open for new information new realizations new ground and it sounds like he has the opportunity to really take it on and really absorb what he's receiving he's feeling excited about doing this podcast production and it's not the humanities okay well humanities might not be for him to do yeah and now he's getting that new information so will he run with it and I'm excited to hear of how he does yeah he's not great I really think he's gonna he's gonna kind of put his head down and go for the passion and that's like the whole thing is that he he's very fortunate too because you know while it seems like he might be pot committed right we I feel like we need to we've invested so much into something so we need to stick it out for the long run yeah he's still you know he's in graduate school he's in college like that's pretty damn early to figure out that you have a passion that you're excited about yeah and I think the most encouraging thing I could tell him is that it's possible like it's there's so many people that are doing it whether in radio or or podcasting especially podcasting because it's so easy just to get up and get started yourself like you can do it and you can make money doing it you can you know really find something that fulfills you and that's that's the important thing and like you don't need all the money in the world you don't find like a you know I don't know if you need to set a number or whatever it is but you're like you don't people have this kind of expectation like oh I just need all that stuff I need to get all this money but it's like you figure out like shit if I can make $50,000 a year podcasting you know maybe it might be difficult to live in New York or LA but like around there I'm like shit that's all I would ever need if I could just do this full time you know I don't need all that extra stuff yeah you're proof right you're you're living in the unconventional life having podcasts make a film do you know things he's saying you want to do this is a working progress because I just made a transition because that was like that thing where I'm like how do I challenge myself next how do I push myself and it was you know I had been a freelance filmmaker for so long and then I stepped into the feature length documentary and you know didn't get paid for it we all we kind of invested and we all said all right let's just put some money together and make this thing and then you need to make a profit on minimalism no we did after that but it was before it we we just went into it we like put 30 to 50 thousand dollars into it like we all kind of pulled our money together I took off time from client work and then we put it out there and then we did make our money back pretty quickly actually it just surprised all of us because we knew we had a niche audience like a small audience that would be you know the people that knew about minimalism already but it was like all right can we open this up to a bigger audience like well people and that's what I was thinking about the whole time like I just don't want to preach to the choir I want to be able to create something that if you never heard about it you might be oh that's interesting yeah yeah I'd be I'd want to hear about that or learn more yeah and then bridge yeah and then like we did end up making a profit from it so then that was an opportunity where I was like okay I want to do more of this and I want to make like stuff that I'm passionate about that I'm excited about instead of acting on other people's visions that's so cool the fact that you took that kind of a risk and you got this kind of reward it's like that's that's big for him too to hear because I think that's what it means to actually let go of something there's a risk involved yeah so like really come to terms with that risk and in your case you invested $40,000 yeah and you let go of money that you could have been making otherwise with other clients and there was no promises right you at that point we're not contracted by Netflix you didn't have any sort of advanced on the film or anything so it's like a complete like jumping out of the sky diving situation and trusting that the net is going to come up yeah even even these days doing the podcast it's like the podcast is improphitable at this point and and I don't expect it to be probably for another year I don't know I'm working on some courses and some stuff so it may happen sooner but it's I don't need it too basically I'm like I'm okay if this day if I can still keep making this thing and I've got a little bit of runaway here but it's you know it's definitely I get clients like from my freelance filmmaking days which were only three four months ago when I really kind of put it on hold oh man I've probably turned up turned down like six figures worth of projects at this point and I've heard no money right where I'm like I I sometimes it's tempting they're like Matt we got a lot of money we we want to do some really creative videos that are really exciting with the startup companies that I would have died for previously and part of me is like oh shit should just do that real quick but then I'm like no that's not it's not where my passion is it's not where I want to head because like you can only head I think in in one direction you know you're say you're going to do music videos or wedding films or whatever it is or you're going to be a podcast or splitting it up and trying to go in multiple directions at the same time it's I think it's only going to give you it's not you're not going to get the full return on your investment if you just take one thing and you're like I'm going all in spoken like the guy who made minimalism of course yeah yeah absolutely yeah no I think there's a lot of value what you're saying I think that there there's definitely something to be said about doing a few things and being able to have the diversification of one's portfolio but I think that what you're saying is so true as far as the that level concentration that creates momentum I think that there's I know I even noticed it as we put more focus on camera ready at first yeah I was busy juggling a couple things and now I'm streamlining it thanks to movies like minimalism I'm really stepping into that and and yeah I mean letting go of some of these other things that that are tempting is so huge because it opens up bandwidth to have more to give the thing that is the main passion and yeah I've noticed it really has changed my quality of life let alone the product and the actual output of it right so it's it's a twofold thing for me I just noticed it's like lighter I just have less going on so it's like literally dropping off bags and yeah I've like a lighter load yeah I think you're right though like it I don't want to say like don't be multi-disciplinary and like just do it once in a point at a time right sure I get ready good this one thing focus on this one thing and maybe it's two months maybe it's a week but then really have your focus and say this is what I want to master for this period of time and then kind of shift gears because we all think we can multi-task and do several things at once but that's totally not true well I think there's something to be said about when things are complementary if there's like a synergistic thing going on between a couple things they sort of live in the same world and and they actually are feeding into each other I think that's different but if it feels like it's almost like you're having like a personality disorder like multiple personalities occurring throughout the day then that feels like it's like it feels a little chaotic I've definitely felt like all of a sudden I'm doing a million things and yeah but if they can serve each other like for me I've been at the intersection lately with a new show that I'm hosting that's about to premiere and also running camera ready and so I was in the question of well can I take on this new show if I'm really launching camera ready right now and so I said yes I was open into possibility being able to both and and it worked out because I felt like I could go host a show and then go back to my class and actually have real relevant very timely examples of what it is that I'm working with them on so for me that was a case of walking the talk and actually modeling and botting things that we talk about in camera ready and we explore and camera ready so in that sense I felt like it was a synergy and that's actually made sense for me to take on both right and I didn't feel fractured right and and sometimes we we have you know people like us we're ambitious there's a lot that we want to do and sometimes that means putting in extra hours sometimes it means working early mornings and late nights I think that's a part of it and I don't think that's something that you can escape because even like the top performers those that are you know putting out best selling books whatever it is even those that have a great balance life there will be times when you have a deadline and you just got to crush the shit out and you got to put in a couple of late nights and I think there's there's a greatness to that when it's in moderation and it's balanced and you're not just you know doing that every single day absolutely and wearing yourself down totally and I think the question of why why are you doing these things like in his case if we go back to the question of do I stick with the humanities track or do I really explore this thing that I'm passionate about well why why would he why would he keep studying humanities why is it because you've already signed up for the thing your mom's expecting you to finish that kind of thing well then get free do it do it your feeling called it do be you and then I think that can just be something that served you while it did or didn't you know and be a footnote versus like the whole chapter right totally let's wrap up here with some quick questions it's quick questions not quick answers so you can elaborate if you feel like you want to cool answer a little bit longer but let's see here what book has had the biggest impact on your life trying to get people reading conversations with God hmm tell me about that book I haven't even heard of it well it's certainly not religious yeah everybody can just relax on that now yeah it's really about a personal journey and a really intimate relationship with God that is beyond religious institutions and dogmatic perspective and this writer Neil Donald Walsh wrote from the perspective of actually having a conversation with God and so it occurs on one level a little bit blasphemous for people who feel like well unless you're man of the cloth you can't have a conversation with God but reading the book it's really powerful and it actually feels like on some level he did and so I remember I had a really hard time swallowing what my dad was throwing down my throat about the church and needing to go to church and it's a very dogmatic upbringing and I get that he had a definition of being a great father being that I needed to go to church and if he didn't do that he'd be failing as a father so I get always coming from you know he was raised in the church and just didn't break the cycle but I really had a hard time with it and I definitely resisted it and so a book like conversation with God wasn't really great disruptor for me it was a way it was an entry point for me to understand faith and believing in something other than what we see and what scientific but we all experience I think that spirituality something that is such a powerful thing and I always pray that people can find their own journey that is in something that is just prescriptive and feels inauthentic and just feels like gosh this is the thing to do and I don't really believe it all together so for me conversations with God was really my first understanding like true understanding of what faith could be for me and it's really really transformed my ability to move in the world with some kind of confidence and something beyond what I see I love it there's actually a new doc out called the heretic have you heard of Rob Bell yeah yeah love Rob Bell yeah he's a he's incredible I'm trying to get him on the podcast I had the the director Andrew Morgan on the show the true cost as well just about the fashion industry and clothing but yeah I just went to the premiere a couple weeks ago that's a great that's a great doc it's out now so if you want to get it it's on iTunes and all that stuff but he he's got that message too where it's like wait a minute you're telling me like because I grow like Catholic and you're telling me that it's you know you can teach spirituality and religion in a completely different way and I'm still in atheists but I can still like hear his message and it resonates and you know there there is a connection there to those ideas and it helps me to think a little bit deeper about my place in the world yeah I think we should be able to question all the things that have just been propagated over the years and not necessarily question I remember growing up I felt like if I asked the question about something in the Bible that I was going to get yelled at and so I stopped asking questions and so when I picked up conversations with God and Neil Donald Walsh was asking all the questions I had burning curiosity about that was that was a game changer for me and that's really what the value of the book is is it explores all those questions that we all have that's cool yeah what drives you what drives me this point of my life really wanting to support other people to be their best self I know it sounds a little bit cheesy but it really is my motivation I feel like I've had a great life and I've been blessed and super grateful and I really do think it is the responsibility of people like us that are blessed in this way that are in the 5% that get to broadcast and drink water readily and all the things that I think in North America we take for granted it's our responsibility to be lighthouses for people who are still finding their way so that's what drives me what's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow breathe it's going to be okay I really believe that when those times of tension and suspense come up the first thing that happens is to forget to breathe and then inherently we're behind the eight ball we're not physiologically set up to win because we're not oxygenating our brain to actually function and yeah breathe it's going to be okay all right one thing to read watch or listen to before my audience goes to bed tonight one thing well they haven't watched your movie watch men alone come on now let's shameless but I'll say it what's a piece of content that I really think is awesome oh man there is a great YouTube video that's a compilation of Will Smith's wisdom you've seen it now it's now he's on YouTube now man he's he's killing it crushing it yeah but there's some some video that I think some fan of his put together it's a compilation of all these snippets from interviews maybe even snippets from his movies and it just goes boom boom boom boom boom boom it's like six minutes of just joules just wisdom bombs from Will Smith and all the cool amazing charismatic ways that he delivers this stuff and yeah that is a really really insightful and motivational and entertaining way to get the get the keys delight oh that's great yeah well Smith is so good I know that there's been some like interviews and clips I've seen for him I'm like oh shit like I can do anything so inspiring yeah it helps that he lives it really yeah what's that you said you have a show it's coming out yes so it's a brand new show on a brand new network called 420 tv 420 tv dot com and the show is all about the entrepreneurs of the cannabis industry cool and it's called cannabis wow that's dope so it's like 60 minutes set in the cannabis industry oh that's killer and what's the what's it looking like is you go to 420 dot com you can stream it if you were 20 tv dot com 420 tv dot com look for cannabis and that's 10 episodes 10 different entrepreneurs different companies that we feature and it's a really interesting world right now and cannabis is helping a lot of people yeah the real great alternative to the opioids that are really causing a lot of damage to people so the ones that come out it's gonna come out any day now I mean we're like yep yeah today is actually our last shoot this one I'm gonna bounce it out of it but yeah we're we're wrapping up production on it and should be out within the next month cool man and last thing what's the best way for people to find you online could do so dot tv is my website and um couldoos tv on instagram and on facebook and i got i am couldoos at twitter so any one of those will do and yeah I'm really very open and accessible I love connecting with people online especially if you're up some inspiring and how to support you would be awesome to connect so great man thanks for doing this uh pleasure you're awesome that's it for this episode of the ground up show thank you so much for listening I really appreciate your support it means the world to me as you this is the ground up show you know and this is um I think the the coolest thing about this was that starting us with zero listeners with zero viewers besides you know my parents and a couple close family friends uh it was a lesson for me to take all the lessons that I've been learning from people I could do and being able to put it into practice on this very podcast so to see it growing to see people getting value from it has been the most rewarding experience of my life so thank you so much for being a part of it um if you like the show if you enjoy it if you've gotten some value out of it uh there's one way to contribute now which is head over to iTunes leave a quick review down the road in the next month or two ish depending on how I work out some of these long form projects I'm doing I'm gonna be creating some courses and some ways that I can hopefully add value to creators those sort of trying to level up either on the video side or the business side and that's gonna be something that's gonna you can expect soon and that'll be the way that you can support this podcast as well because I'm gonna try I'm trying to do this without advertising uh and a lot of people have messages me saying hey mate you should totally do advertising I don't care what everybody's used to it especially on YouTube you know it's just status quo but I want to try I want to try I want to try to do this without advertising I want to try to do this in a way that I know I would appreciate as a viewer or listener myself so let's if we can do that let's see if we can make that work again thanks for listening thanks for watching and I will see you guys next week
