# Facing Resistance // Ground Up 084
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vb5G5pB36ps
Sarah Moshman:  https://sarahmoshman.com
Support this podcast:  https://patreon.com/mattdavella

Sarah Moshman is a documentary filmmaker that focuses on telling stories about powerful women. Her Netflix documentary Losing Sight of Shore follows four women as they row across the Pacific Ocean unassisted from America to Australia.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-10-24

## Transcript
 Hey guys and welcome back to the Ground Up Show, the podcast hosted from my dining room. Today, on the podcast, I'm sitting down with documentary filmmaker Sarah Moschman, her most recent documentary follows for women as they row from America to Australia completely unassisted. It's an amazing film, super powerful. I think you guys are really going to enjoy this conversation as well. On the episode, we talk about how to overcome resistance when you're following a path of non-conformity, how to balance ambition with your personal life, and also practical steps if you're looking to get funding on your first feature film or major project. But first, if you've enjoyed this podcast so far, I would love it if you would make a small contribution on Patreon. Patreon is a community that I have been creating exclusive videos and content for over the past couple months, and I've been able to delve deeper into topics like lifestyle design, filmmaking, how I make my videos and much, much more. You can check it out at patreon.com slash Matt Diavella. Thank you guys so much for watching and enjoy the show. Okay, I got the dirt. I did lots of research. I know everyone was not sure. I don't do tons of research, but I like this one of your things. Exactly. Well, that's the thing, right? It's like whenever you hop into a conversation, you don't know. You don't want to know everything about somebody. You want to be able to explore and learn and poke the different things. So that's my excuse for not doing my diligent research. I'm a mine. It's great. Sarah, thank you so much for joining me on the podcast. Great to be here. Really excited to chat with you. A lot to talk about from filmmaking to a lot and filmmaking from making your films happen to finding the stories and all that, but also what I really find fascinating about your work is the focus on finding strong, powerful stories from women and also the resistance that a lot of women and people in general face when you come up against obstacles that a lot of people would turn away. How has facing resistance been a part of your own personal story and how does that kind of work its way into your films? Certainly. I think anytime you're doing something that's different from what your friends, family colleagues are doing, it can be scary. It can be overwhelming and you perhaps face the largest amount of resistance from yourself. Like am I capable of this that imposter syndrome can set in? Because for the past about five years, I've been working on my own projects, really like creating my own opportunities instead of waiting for the phone to ring or for someone to pick me. I've been picking myself. So honestly, the biggest resistance is just in my own brain saying, are you capable of this? You've never done this before. Are you sure you're ready and just having to like power through all of that? I think that's probably a common theme of anybody who follows an untraditional path or people who achieve success even in a corporate type of environment. You can't wait for the opportunity. Yeah, I mean it's funny. It kind of stems from me from when I went to college, University of Miami and Florida. I was so homesick my first two years, really. I just had never, I grew up in Chicago and had never really been away from home before. Like I'm talking no overnight camp. None of that. So I was just, I guess a homebody and didn't even know it. And so having to leave my comfort zone and find all new friends and activities and like lifestyle, I don't know anybody there. I'm glad I persevered through that experience because now as an adult and someone in my career that's all I do is leave my comfort zone. I don't really have a comfort zone anymore. So and especially now as a new parent, a mother every day, I'm finding a new comfort zone or that looks like. So I'm glad that I had to persevere through several experiences that were uncomfortable and difficult and not normal for me. And so because of that, now I love to travel and I love to try new things and put myself in situations that I know I'll have to learn and grow. Where there are some moments or big things that you did early on that push you out of your comfort zone. I know for me like I just like that I was a homebody but I think I just didn't want to admit it to myself or anybody else. Like I watched a lot of TV and I'm like oh no I know about other cultures. And meanwhile I hadn't been on a plane until I was 18 years old. I hadn't left the country until I was 25, 26. The couple reasons why like in part because I was ambitious and I was starting film and doing freelance client work and I just didn't want to move too far away from it and stay busy and also it stemmed from growing up with a family of seven kids and just not having a lot of money. And so there was both those that I had lots all the excuses in the world but eventually I was like all right you know what I need to like just see the world a little bit and travel and it opens you up in a way. It's more like like I think like internal wiring right? It's really is. It's not knowledge. It's like the only thing you spend your money on that makes you richer. I love that because it's just so true you can't even articulate all the ways in which you're growing as a person when you travel. So it's pretty powerful. This earlier this year I went to Djibouti in Africa and in a couple weeks I'm headed to Uzbekistan. Both places I never ever ever thought I would go and filmmaking and teaching and being able to share my love of the camera is what is bringing me to these places so that's really exciting and powerful and I never thought that would be part of my life so. It's amazing to be able to have the overlap right to be able to have the camera take you somewhere. I think there's something to be said for just exploring and traveling period but you're able to kind of marry the two. Do you have a trouble with the the work life balance? I know that somebody everybody talks about it but at least from my perspective a lot of times it's from people who maybe don't like their work. I'm obviously all of us can go a little bit too far on the work end of things. Oh sure. I mean I'm figuring that out every day especially as a mother now. It's just the inner dialogue. It's like am I being enough of this and I being enough of that and I letting this person down and I you know that feeling of guilt. So I think about that stuff all the time. I talk about it in therapy. It's just a big part of my life is thinking about that but I try not to beat myself up too much because I do really love the work that I do and it's a fabric of who I am is making documentaries is helping to tell stories about women and powerful role models is really important to me so I find that I struggle to turn off. Like it's really it's hard to be present and just be in the moment sometimes. Having a child does help with that because you kind of can't help but be present because she's like crawling around my house and I have to make sure she's not going to fall. So it forces you to be present as a parent but that would be my biggest struggle in terms of like work life balance would be enjoying those moments of stillness and quiet when they come knowing that the work will be there or that you will find that next job or that next film to work on. It does things don't happen exactly when you want them to all the time and that's just a reality of this business and you kind of have to just go with the flow and let that be what it is and appreciate those moments that you have on your own and I think parent has really helped me kind of embrace that but I just I'm I'm very empathetic so it's hard to leave my work at work especially if I work a lot from home the two are just in extra inextripably intertwined so I just didn't interview that was I'm working on a documentary right now called Never The Less which is about sexual harassment in America and I just returned from New York and interviewed this guy who was in the Navy and was raped several times as part of his experience there and just a terrible story he's a lovely person I'm so grateful that he shared that with me but it just kind of sits on your heart you know it's it's not like I'm like okay great thanks bye we're done cut I've been thinking about his story for days now and so it's really hard to separate and kind of tease apart what is the film and what is me and my life because the two are just together so that's kind of what I struggle with with balance is like how to separate yourself sometimes from your projects when they are so personal to you yeah I mean I think that sometimes we have this idealistic version of what our life will look like you might read a book and you're a bit okay cool I'm going to apply this and then I'm going to be a successful business owner I'm going to have everything that I want to let yeah it's going to be perfect and I think the art of being a human and being alive and trying to make things happen is that it's constantly a balancing act and maybe we have different seasons where we feel like maybe I'm spending a little bit too much time at on work right now but that's all right like I'm pushing towards a deadline and then once this deadline passes I can rebalance and shift my focus again I imagine having a child gets you to understand what's definitely not worth sacrificing absolutely and brings that into focus for you yeah I mean having a child being a mother has made me a stronger negotiator actually with jobs that come up it's a lot easier to turn things down because I have to get childcare or put stress on my husband or travel you know there's so many extra factors now so if there's a rate that doesn't meet my demands you know it's not it might not be worth it so that's been meets a stronger negotiator which I appreciate you know I think in the past I would have taken a job without fighting for more money maybe out of fear out of feeling like oh they're not going to want me if I ask for more money like there's just that weird internal money struggle to but it's been a lot easier this year to be like if you can't meet this rate then it's just not worth my time and that feels good and this year it actually has worked really well to say like this is what I'm worth and if you can't meet that then you can find somebody else but good luck you know it's like I really love that lesson because yeah a lot of times you might think it's going to be only more struggle more challenges to be faced with the child and I'm sure that's definitely true in a lot of ways but that's one of those silver linings that I think hopefully you can learn it early on when it's hard because negotiating and being in a position where you can say notice something means that you have enough on your plate either from a work sense or from like your family like you said you're like I'm sorry just it needs to be really worth it for me because I only take X amount of projects a year because there rest of the time I got to be with my family yeah and it's I've also been having this inner dialogue about working moms and how much they struggle in the workforce so there's a pretty startling statistic that I learned from the status of women and girls report in California which is that working mothers that wage gap between women who are mothers that work versus women who work that are not currently mothers is greater than the wage gap between men and women which is really shocking but also now that I'm here and I see it and I get it I understand like how so many women are pushed out of the workforce we're just not supported at any step of the journey I'm gonna as soon as you give birth to the baby it isn't not about you anymore it's just about the baby and it's isolating and it's devastating I mean I had no maternity leave whatsoever I'm a freelance filmmaker entrepreneur so I had to save money and create my own nobody supported me in that sense and then you know you get to the breastfeeding phase of your journey if you choose to do that and then there's no place to pump so even if you are working in the world you feel very isolated and bizarre that you have to go to like on a bathroom floor and pump milk for your baby so that you can get home to her and feed her I mean it's just crazy there's like nowhere to go you go to the bathroom to like change your kid and there's no changing table like just every step of the way and then God forbid you have any mental health struggles um therapy at least center my insurance is not covered you know just like there's just never there's no arms wide open welcoming mothers and helping them be the best version of themselves and or in the working world so I've just have so many friends who have faced pregnancy discrimination you know certainly been demoted whether it's been unconscious or conscious bias you know and that comes from men and from women it's not gender specific some women in positions a leadership will also project their own experiences on other women and be like you don't want to work or like you don't want to travel so that's been another layer for me this year is having this inner dialogue of like you have something to prove I'm whether it's to myself or to like society I don't know but there's definitely a force in my brain thinking like you've got to kill it this year and prove that you can do all of the things because other women are counting on you and I just want anyone to never count me out I think that's a big fear of mine is that someone will have this great opportunity and they won't ask me they won't even ask if I'm available if I'm interested because they're like oh she's a mom she wouldn't want to do it and that happens all the time to me to so many women I know so that's definitely important to me it's just to prove that women who work that our moms can do whatever they want or not they can also stay home if they feel like it and great good for you that's to me what feminism is is choice is ability to choose what your life should look like and not be afraid to like own that so that was much more than you bargained for on that answer I think that's that's what really goes on in my head now as a mother and as a filmmaker well I think that that's amazing though too because like you said so many different circumstances it's so many people are going to choose a different path when they get there and it's not to make somebody feel guilty for not you know continuing to put in the work it really depends on your own ambition what you want to get out of it and if you want to take a year off that's amazing take a year off yeah you know you'll be there for every second you know yes I just don't feel the most myself unless I'm also a filmmaker that's who I've been for my entire life and I haven't wanted to be a mom a whole life I'm you know she was planned and very happy to have her here her name's Bryce she's 10 months old today um I'm totally in love with her that I think people often intertwine those as well like I can be obsessed with my daughter and still want to go over here and work and travel like those are totally separate things to me but oftentimes we intertwine the two right and I think it's actually it's so helpful to have things outside of your career totally outside of the things that are achievement based I I can't wait to have kids and but it's the same things that you're going through now are the things that Natalie and I are talking about and it's the it's really big challenges it's really big questions it's totally and it's also getting out in front of it yeah and trying to to to to be open about our communication figure okay how is this going to work how we both going to be able to continue to achieve and she's very passionate and her work and same with myself how can we still continue to have that without sacrificing too much yeah exactly just being good team is a great place to start whether you have a kid or not just like having that open communication and just being on the same page that you're in it together another really interesting frustrating part of this journey is that we don't give fathers a lot of credit and then when fathers are mediocre to better than mediocre we celebrate them profusely there's like there's a billboards out here it right here in Hollywood that say be a father today and it's like just today yeah um how about every day like there's nothing like that for mothers it's like we need to remind our fathers to take part in their children's lives that's insane yeah or like you see you see some a father with a child at the grocery store I know like when my brother goes out with his baby at the grocery store everybody like the bar is so nice yeah totally I mean the father of the year you know and I'm like I'm just supposed to be really good at this which I'm not this doesn't come naturally to me I'd never changed a diaper before like I'm doing my best so like I feel like the bar is so high for me and then I'll never meet it and then Ryan who actually is a wonderful father and partner and all of the things deserves the credit but still it's just like he's getting parades thrown in his honor for like just taking her to the mall it's like what yeah I guess and that's so funny I guess it's just one of those things that you observe and you try and I tell effect your your own well being and it's like the resistance right you come across those things sometimes you know I watched your your TEDx talk and and talking about some of the resistance that that the four star maybe yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah show Howard yeah yeah what was the quote that she said it was oh um when you're in a position and you're in a minority group and that can mean there's just not a lot of you in the occupation you don't have the luxury of being average yeah it's just profound to be in that position you you are gonna face this massive amount of resistance so it's gonna be like the whole tide is kind of pushing against you yeah and and that's a case where it's much more drastic she was 18 years old when she was first women weren't even allowed to enter the navy up until this point yeah so think about that tide and now we have this subtle tide that's still is it I think a negative detriment on our well being but it's about trying to be mindful and not letting that stop you from moving forward yeah it's powerful let's talk about your film making career so that that film specifically was your first feature length dock but how did you first get into filmmaking so what we were just just like my was the empowerment project which is my first feature but um I've been making docks since I was a teenager pretty much when I was 16 is what I made my first film um my parents very kindly got me a video camera it was one of those like Sony hi-8 cameras um the head like CP atone and slow motion and why it was pretty cool you guys and mostly made just like silly music videos with friends but pre-youtube but um the first film I made was called Family isn't just blood it was a very profound piece uh for my high school English class where I interviewed um classmates of mine that had different family dynamics in my own so I grew up with you know mom dad brother sister which I thought was so boring and so I wanted to interview um my friend who had gay parents and I had another friend who was adopted and another friend who was artificially inseminated and all the things I just wanted to learn more about people different than me and and that was a really amazing experience and so I just kept making films and then went to the University of Miami and Florida to study film made lots of terrible films there thought we're so good at the time narrative and documentary um I tried every position on the set just wanted to learn as much as I could outside of class and then moved up to LA 2008 so as soon as I graduated like 10 years ago um and then I started working reality TV I got my very first job on dancing with the stars a little show you mine a first little show little diddy um right here down the road actually CBS television city um and I began as a story assistant on that show which means that you're out in the field there's like a two minute video package that airs before the celebrity and dancer dance live every Monday night um it is still on you guys oh my god it's their on season 27 um similar format still same form my god same form it amazing how like they just they're like well it's perfect it works like people with it I've just learned that like until ABC finds another show that can garners much add dollars then forget it it's gonna stay put uh but I worked on season 7 through 16 so I did 10 seasons of the show I worked as a story assistant and then moved up to associate producer and then field producer which was great it was a great experience I learned a ton I met like every 90s R&B star that I ever loved growing up um lots of Olympians lots of NFL Super Bowl Champs I mean and everybody in between Buzz Aldrin that's a highlight I should have led with Buzz I now well I got a finish with Buzz he was amazing and they wanted him to do the moonwalk I mean come on oh my god so good I mean he can do he could next no way but I mean come on um but it was great and I worked on a bunch of other shows for like life time and bravo and the food network and MTV and um that was like a whole other chapter of my career uh the kind of the first five years in LA and it was great so educational and really complimented the skills of being a documentary filmmaker but I really missed that I missed the feeling of being in film school where you're just supposed to create and you're just supposed to try things and fail and fall down and like just be artistic and I missed that freedom of creativity and so during my hiatus is on the shows I was working on I would make short documentaries to kind of get back into it so my first short documentary outside of school was called Girls Rock Chicago and was bought about these all this all girls rock and roll camp in Chicago but it's actually international there Girls Rock Camps all over the world um we showed up on day one of the camp and we picked three of the bands to follow throughout the journey and they learned guitar bass and drums within a week and they wrote their own songs and then by like Saturday they're performing at the metro in Chicago which is like a venue of a thousand people it was so cool um and it just got me back into the making of films and and recognizing that I could develop those skills again and um tell stories it really mattered to me and so then I made another short documentary called growing up strong girls on the run which is about a organization called Girls on the run that um teaches girls really important lessons about bullying, gossiping, self-esteem while they train for a five K event so there is that like fitness self-esteem element um and then I decided maybe I should try my hand at a feature and so the empowerment project is my first feature in documentary and that film came straight from the heart the idea was what if I drive across the United States and interview inspirational women from all different careers from a pilot to an athlete astronaut mathematician a four star admiral in the Navy a stylist a theater director as many careers as we could possibly pack in to this road trip um and I drove across the US with four other female filmmakers and it was the most fun transformative month ever actually we got back from the road trip five years ago yesterday which is crazy and we drove over 7,000 miles through 22 states once we got back we spent about six or seven months in post-production and then the film the empowerment project was done in April 2014 so that was my first feature and we raised the money on Kickstarter and found a private donor through Kickstarter and we made that film for like $50,000 or something yeah well it's funny because it depends if it's a filmmaker listening or not and the film making it like 50 that's a lot of money what the time it felt like so much it's like yeah that gets you through like color grading and sound design and that's it but um it must have felt pretty amazing though to go from a position where you're maybe working on a project like dancing with the starts where you don't have a lot of the creative control or at least telling the stories that you wanted to tell you have no choice over the stories you're telling uh so moving into the empowerment project it must have been uh empowering what's the word what's the word what's the word it's just so freeing it was like oh there's no boss over our shoulder there's no one to check in with at the end of the day to be like how did it go I mean it was so liberating but also by the time we got to the road trip we had already raised money on Kickstarter and spent months planning so it was also a celebration of the hard work we had put into that point that was really exciting too it's not like we just gone the car so um yeah it was it was a moment of freedom of empowerment and what if this could be what I do all the time what if this could be the start to something bigger um and what if this could create revenue that would sustain a living and all of those things happened hmm so one of my favorite quotes that I got a piece of advice was that if your story doesn't change along the way then you're not listening totally what did you learn from making the film what were some of the takeaways for you that you you experienced both in in filming and editing and meeting with all these women yeah I think um one of the big takeaways was that as women were more alike than we are different and that was exciting to witness because when you're going to interview a four star admiral for example again Michelle Howard who's unbelievable you might not think you have anything in common with her and then you sit down and you have this conversation and you find out we're actually exactly the same we we face a lot of the same struggles it's just in a different industry and to find that commonality and to find that universal experience was really exciting and really connecting and the five of us after we'd do an interview would get back in the minivan and just sort of sit there and talk about what it was like and what we learned and how we grew and and that was sort of it was like a multilayered empowered experience we also mentored aspiring female filmmakers on set so that's not really a part of the film but um we kind of behind the scenes did that so we had like women write in and ask to join our crew and they weren't like getting us coffee we were turning teaching them how to use the lights in the cameras so it was really this like multi layered empowerment experience it was like this really special bubble for a month it was awesome yeah I think that the mentoring is such an important aspect like everybody needs that they just need to they just need a little bit of guidance a little bit of positive reinforcement because I remember starting out it didn't feel like I could do it it didn't feel like I mean the world's a lot different from 10 years ago 10 years ago you look at it and you're like can you make it as a professional filmmaker and the only options really art within the industry YouTube was just getting started out and there was no professional YouTube at the time there didn't add revenue or anything like that but now the world's opening up and you see more examples of it but still a lot of doubt when you're first starting out absolutely especially because I don't know about your experience but at film school that I went to and others that I teach at they really don't prepare you for anything after graduation you leave film school being like I want to be a director it's like great where do they hire those like you just you're not gonna like get a job as a director right out of school I mean that if you are that's the exception to the rule so then how do you parlay that into practical skills to earn money to pay bills so that's like a harsh realization when you get out of college especially if you're dead it's like what I thought I was going to be directing films and yeah but most people I know start you know of course you start at the bottom you're a production assistant you're a story assistant you're an executive assistant whatever that's harsh when you kind of come out feeling really great and then you're like oh no I have to totally find my way I have to carve my own path and so for me working in television was a great place to start to kind of get the lay of the land of what it means to live in LA and work in this business and then realize one of my favorite quotes during the time where I was sort of like I need to do something else was sometimes you'd climb the ladder of success to find it was on the wrong wall and that was profound for me because I felt like I was doing really well at dancing with the stars and I would get comments from my co-workers like say are you gonna be running this show some day and I was just like thanks I don't know if that's something I aspire to like it's a it's a compliment I hope that means you see some leadership skills in me but that's not really what my dream is and I felt like I had gotten off track like well I came out here to make movies I came out here to be a director and I'm doing an arm of that I get a little bit of that but not enough to like fill my soul so yeah when I was about 25 and 2012 and 2013 is really when I kind of took the sharp turn yeah I think that a step one when you graduate college or you're trying to enter the work force for the first time get experience and pay the bills like you have to pay the bills and you kid it's unfortunate but it's true I mean that's the harsh reality but I think it will motivate you to get that experience because that's what's going to be able to allow you to increase your rate and and do all these things and make it in any creative or any field in general it's just to get really good at something but what I loved about what you did is that like you said when you leave when you leave college it's like well where do they hire directors but you you kind of you made the role right you you invented it you can be a director if you just set out and say I'm gonna be a director right double camera let's do this yeah I mean I think it's funny how I'm 10 years in now let's say five years to like my chapter and it only feels like now like this year 2018 that I'm finally getting opportunities to direct other people's project or other work that I'm really interested in that's totally in line with like my mission and my message so it takes a while to cultivate that relationship to you know let people know kind of I mean I kind of an annoyed by like what's your brand but it's true like if you if all the work that I'm doing is very much in this category in this lane then other people see me as that and then will recommend me for work in that same category and that's finally starting to pay off this year which has been really really exciting is to get other directing work and do you prefer I guess do you have a preference there or in terms of creating your own projects and directing them versus partnering with other people to make projects happen I think it's a nice combination of all of it I'm not opposed to any of it as long as you're working with passionate people that have you know the right intention I kind of like having multiple projects going at the same time now I think with the Empowering Project I was just focused on that then my second feature is called losing sight of shore and I was just focused on that for two years really I don't really have a luxury of just focusing on one thing right now so it's kind of nice to have multiple projects going at once and so never the less which is the film I'm making now I'm about a year into production but I've been picking it up and putting it down and that's been really nice actually to have have that going on in the background and always moving it forward in some way but being able to stop and work on something else so it's been nice I think that's what you can do as you get better as you get more experience because when you do delegate yeah and when you do the first film you have no idea what you're doing you're like all right let's just try to make this happen but then as you get more experience as you build up your skill set you can you know start to juggle you can start to bring a few more things into the mix and the I think the challenging part is knowing when it's too much knowing when you're you're getting overworked and overwhelmed yeah and this the quality of what you're creating is actually going to suffer in the long run definitely I've gotten better this year at delegating to others like with my past films because we just didn't have a big budget I would just take on all these extra roles like a assistant editing you know post supervising whatever you want to call it like just moving things forward when that's not my skill set like I'm not a superstar editor but I can hire an assistant editor that can help me you know streamline the process and get my editor set up for success so this year has been it's been nice actually to kind of take some of the brunt of the responsibility off of my shoulders simply because I don't have the time but it's been really freeing to kind of bring other people into the process and be like you're way better at us you should do that not me yeah you're some money you know I'm so jealous for that because I I just take it all on my back and I'm like I'll do the editing I'll do the color grading I'll do the sound I'll do the shooting I listen I think that there's a power in that especially area on oh yeah you can take to learn full responsibility of every aspect of production it's possible to get something done and I think that's going to allow you to create things when there are no budget when there's nobody that believes in you or your project yeah but then as you move along yeah you know it's if you want to be able to keep your sanity yeah spend time with your kids it's about delegating and hiring the right people to help you and they're going to make your vision even better honestly just bringing in the fresh eyes and you know different perspectives especially with something like sexual harassment it's so easy to kind of be in your own vacuum of your opinion or what you've thought but bringing in other people to help me kind of see outside of my blind spots my own privileges has been really important so I'm trying to embrace the delegation absolutely losing sight of sure yes what awesome documentary had a chance to watch it on Netflix so yeah talk about this is how how we met we met at some like random get together from mutual friends yeah who are on the podcast and you know just hearing about that sort of oh I got to check out this film this sounds amazing but really interesting in terms of how you found the story and also also I guess how the story found you in one of ways so yeah you want to talk about sure so after making the empowerment project I did a lot of like touring with the film we actually show it in schools and groups and organizations and corporations all over the world spend an amazing distribution education which we can talk more about but there's a blogger in the UK named Fiona Tatten and she had interviewed me about the empowerment project previously and so in late January of 2015 I got an email from her that simply innocently said I hey Sarah I just came across these four women who are about to row about across the entire Pacific Ocean I thought you might want to know about it I mean it was like the most innocent little email um I had no idea that email would truly change my life and that the the two years that followed would be like the greatest adventure I could have ever imagined um and from that email I ended up skyping with two of the rowers the next day with really no intention other than to help them you know decide what GoPro to buy like I just really had no idea what this even was I didn't even know people did that I'm not an athlete definitely not a rower um so I'm total novice in the situation and so I got on Skype with Laura and Natalia who are now two of my heroes and um I was just blown away I was just so overwhelmed with the idea that they were going to do something so impossible so dangerous they were training for it sure but they were not professional athletes um they were not professional rowers and I was so taken by their energy and their spirit and how they wanted to prove what the human spirit really is capable of and it really wasn't about rowing at all and that really spoke to me and they made me feel like I could do it too like they they simultaneously were so welcoming and also so impressive um and I loved their you know who they were as people so by the end of that very first Skype um I was like I have to make this movie I have to help you tell your story and I have no idea how I'm going to do it but I'll figure it out and and it was I have to mention it was like the worst possible timing because I think people act as though these things come up and you're like perfect I had nothing on the calendar for the next two years or like the next three months I was wide open like no in fact the next day after that email I had I had to do a whole tour with the empowering project for two months I was on the road so no time to fundraise no time to really plan but three months after that initial Skype I was standing on the dock in San Francisco and at three o'clock in the morning because of tides I guess and uh I watched them row away with essentially my life savings in the form of cameras hard drives and microphones and so I taught them how to use the cameras I really tried to empower them to be storytellers even though they definitely weren't um and I had no idea I cannot stress this enough I had no idea if I'd have a film on the other side I didn't know if they would make it I didn't know what that would look like didn't know how long it would take I knew a whole lot of nothing but I just wanted to try and no one else was telling their story which I thought was astounding you know that I was like how is ESPN not all over this or how is National Geographic I mean it was I was just shocked which perhaps is a reflection of our culture and you know maybe not caring as much about women stories I don't know but whatever the reason no one was telling their story and I just felt this tremendous responsibility to to try and it was amazing I would meet them on land along the way so the way the journey worked was they it was a three-stage journey um but they were totally unsupported so no support boat no camera boat they were totally alone out there in the middle of the Pacific which is the point they were rolling from America to Australia over 8,000 miles they thought it was going to take about six months in total ended up taking about nine months to row the Pacific and they'd stop on land for about a week 10 days and restock their boat with food and gets you know steps on solid ground and call their families but for the most part it was a quick turnaround and then they'd be back on the water again so I would be there on land um I would collect the hard drives from the boat and like pray that anything was on them I mean that that first time when you saw them go away that must take so much bravery I couldn't imagine taking all this camera gear that I have in this room and then just giving it to some people you kind of know yeah don't know how to use it and you're like ah good luck yeah I mean I was with them for four days before they left but yeah and then what ended up happening is they ended up having a bit of an emergency and going back to Santa Barbara and they started in San Francisco which was actually a huge blessing because I wasn't going to see them until Hawaii which would be like months later um so 16 days into their trip they ended up coming into Santa Barbara which affixed their boat so it was great so I got to look at the footage they had shot so far which was terrible oh my god really oh my god it was so bad what a great like little trial it was perfect it was perfect for everyone yeah everyone was like okay well now we know we're doing let's go um so they really had to restart um and so I went back over everything on the camera I'm like here was the microphone if you don't turn it on you get no audio you know things like that or here's how you focus um just a refresher course um so I'm so grateful that was like meant to be and also I didn't have any footage of them at sea so I rented a boat in a captain and went out and saw their tiny pink dot on the horizon for the first time and it was so powerful to see them in action and that helped me cut together like my first sizzle reel which then I used to apply for grants and it just goes from there so yeah it was great I mean yeah that that is a great segue into how to sell and how to it seems like from our conversation in the past that you're very thoughtful about how to not only make a great film but to be able to how do we get the money for it how to make a practical how do we make revenue on it on you know education programs and sponsorships and partnerships and all this stuff um how talk about that the sizzle reel and creating that and how does that help you yeah I mean I I really think of myself as an entrepreneur as well as a filmmaker or they're just one in the same I think we should think of a filmmaker as an entrepreneur because that's essentially what it is I mean you're starting a business you're creating a product you have to find an audience or consumer based for that product that might take all the art and like sexiness out of it but to me that's at its core what we're trying to do here um these films aren't any good unless people watch them so um I really enjoy the entire process especially now that I'm on my third and fourth feature I'm really starting to enjoy from the seed of the idea through fundraising through you know creating it production to post production to who the heck's gonna want to watch it and how do I access those people and that's different for every project and it's different for every filmmaker every social impact element of documentary um but it's exciting it's like a cool puzzle to pivot together for me and so um I'm a huge fan of crowdfunding I really believe in the principles of you know gathering your audience from the start um I've applied for several grants I was rejected from nine grants before I got my first one for losing set of shore and then we ended up getting four grants where do you go to get a grant like what what somebody do they're like hey I want to get a grant from my film sure what there's so many yeah I would I highly encourage people to there's not like one database um international documentary association has a pretty good database actually it's just documentary.org um that's a good place to start and a lot of them actually share the same application now it's called the core app kind of like the common app when you're playing for college um so it's really nice because instead of having to fill up 10 different applications with 10 different questions questionnaires it's kind of all the same and they're asking you like what's your budget who are you what's your previous work you know who's gonna watch this where your characters like all that stuff that you should know anyway so if nothing else filling out these grant applications helps you articulate what the heck it is you're trying to do um but there's so many grants available and and some of them are specific to the subject matter of the film some of them are specific to the filmmaker there's definitely a lot that are women specific or people of color specific um students specific there's some so many resources out there and the best piece of advice I got about grants was this instructor I worked with and she said if you don't apply some other idiot will and I just thought that's profound because you just don't know you don't know what they're looking for and and why not try um it is time consuming and if you don't get any of course it feels like you put in all this work for no money but um when you do get one you're suddenly like grants are amazing but why doesn't everyone apply and a lot of these grants come with resources so I got the tryback all um all access grants so that's the tryback of film institute and so it was a $10,000 grant which is great but better than that they sent me to New York to pitch my project as part of their marketplace so with losing sight of sure when we were in post production I was able to pitch the film um 30 times in two days to other two distributors film festival programmers post production houses for resources finance years sales agents I mean you name it and and not only that it wasn't like me going up to someone's table being like hey can I talk to you? It was we've seen your trailer we're interested in this we want to meet with you so you're it's sort of like speed dating for distribution and it was great and I learned so much and I felt so good that I was able to like articulate my project and I knew who my characters were and I knew they had made it to Australia and I like knew I had a movie so it was a really amazing experience and that led to more funding it led to my sales agent ultimately um and the sales agent led to Netflix so yeah I've kind of done it a bunch of different ways I've had investors as well for losing sight of sure the combination of funding was um necessary you know not a lot of people believed not they didn't believe in the project but not a lot of people writing me checks because what if they don't make it and that was very scary to put a lot of my own money in at the beginning because we don't even know what this is yet what if they'd just go to Santa Barbara and then quit you know are what if Hawaii's the end of the road and then you have no movies so it was hugely risky and luckily I came into contact with a husband and wife that wanted to invest in the documentary and believed in me and the vision and they're wonderful people and so they helped me get through production then I finally started to get some grants doing a little bit of kind of informal crowd funding so you can kind of claw tooth and nail the like piece it together but these things are always hard I mean documentaries you don't exactly know what film it is that you're making so how do you get people to believe in you um so it's it's gotten a little easier over time I will say on number it's kind of a little easier not much but I can kind of go back to people that funded me before and say if you liked what I did there here's what I'm doing now doesn't always work but that's a good place to start people I didn't know to contact the first time around um crowd funding I did again this year I raised 57,821 from 600 and 10 backers with a three month old at home for nevertheless because it mattered so much to me and I just I had no funding I needed to get started and crowd funding was a great place to start because I really didn't know what stories I wanted to tell exactly but I knew I had the wherewithal to finish it or to pull it off so yeah film making is obviously very messy a lot of this stuff is very messy I think anytime you have business in entrepreneurship and there's no just straight line sometimes I don't think there's ever a straight line in life whether you're working a corporate 95 or otherwise if you want to progress and if you want to grow it's going to be sticky and weird and awkward and you're going to have uncomfortable conversations and I think that it is about facing those uncomfortable conversations it's about you know I don't know about you you're probably better at than I am but like like making a phone call that try to like pitch an investor or try to talk I would get so nervous I'd have to write a script out and I'd have to be like I need to be really prepared for this but and I would still find that really challenging today do you find it easier to face these uncomfortable situations the longer that you've been doing them or do you there's still a certain amount of putting yourself out of your comfort zone oh yeah there's always nerves and posture syndrome is very real but I would say as I move forward in my process making a film I'm getting to know the film better and better and what I mean by that is like as somebody's like oh what are you working on now and I'll say I'm making a documentary about sexual harassment and they're like well what do you mean like what is what are you going to do like how do you how are you going to talk about that and so it's like you just start to pay attention to what questions people have when their eyes start to glaze over when they're engaged and interested when they're like oh wow I've never heard a story like that before so I'm kind of always like in a little bit of a focus group situation as I'm moving through the world I'm trying to take notice of what people are responding to to understand who my audience is and how I can best serve that audience with losing side of sure I always felt like it was the best easiest pitch it was like four women gotten a boat in the rowing across the Pacific Ocean and without fail every person I said that to would have like 10 follow up questions like where do they go to the bathroom how does that work you know like what do you mean um did they survive you know everyone is so interested and so I was like I must have something here if I just if I don't totally fuck this up I've got a great film because people are intrigued they want to know how this could happen how this could be pulled off so I just was paying attention to what people wanted to know about the journey and that helped me inform the edit and so same with nevertheless like I'm just a constant sponge of articles and research and of course obviously with our current political discourse there's so much to ingest and to understand what do you mean everything's perfect what do you mean um then it's like you know you've got your own experiences that you're trying to serve and understand and then the interviews that you do are quite emotional and I truly believe that when someone shares their story with me it's then my responsibility to share it with the world it's kind of like they've given it to me they've passed this like torch whether I want it or not and so I have to go do something with it otherwise it was worthless for them to have so much of an open wound or pain with me and so yeah I'm just trying to you're always paying attention to who could your audience be where do they watch their content is another big one um with losing set of sure I always knew that Netflix would be the right home for it they have such a worldwide audience and to me this story transcends you know language or borders time you know I really truly believed in my heart that anyone could be inspired by their story of perseverance and bravery and courage but with nevertheless you know it's a little bit trickier because I want men to be a large part of my audience but I don't know if they're going to be signing up or buying it to get to watch a film like this even though they're the ones I want to reach the most so how do you get you know um the sometimes opposing party to take part in your dialogue when that's the last thing on their list to watch maybe um so that's a huge challenge this time is like wanting to invite everyone to the table for these somewhat uncomfortable dialogues when I don't want to just preach to the choir I don't want to just have all women in the audience being like yes I feel seen I feel heard this is my experience yeah that's important I want that but nothing will really change unless more people watch the film that aren't used to hearing these dialogues and stories so yeah it's each film kind of presents its own challenges which I like yeah I think a lot of it has to do with having intuition and like you're saying listening so you talk with people you have all these conversations about a film about a project that you're working on and do their eyes light up is it something people are genuinely interested in because you know unless you're talking to your mom or somebody who's really close to you that's going to be I don't know I guess even people who are close to you don't bullshit if they're not be into yeah but like if is it somebody that's just being polite is somebody actually just trying to be nice in which case they still will likely not be that interested right I'm not going to ask a bunch of questions yeah so if you have a project you have to be very aware of how people respond to your elevator pitch exactly and if it's a little bit uncomfortable it's still you're still going to be able to sense I mean okay maybe this is like this is something that is worth poking at yeah but I do like the approach that you're taking with this new film where it's like you're not trying to create enemies or you're not trying to like make people look bad but it's just like hey let's let's talk about this let's have a discussion about something that people don't talk about enough yeah exactly it's I'm not looking to point the finger at any one person or company it's more about the systems that are in place in our country but really all over the world that help perpetuate this behavior I think it's kind of foolish to think that sexual harassment is boiled down to one person's actions when really it's our culture and the way that we set up our interactions in the workplace that we're all a part of women too I mean it's it's astounding when we think about even just at our core the the language that we use to talk about each other can be very disrespectful the story that I think rings true the most is when I was about five or six months pregnant last year and I was standing in front of my building with my husband and our neighbor came up to us and this is like a 30 year old white straight cisgender male who's married very nice a friend of ours right that matters I guess and he came up to us and was like hey do you guys know what you're having yet a griller boy and we were like no we hope for a girl but we're good either way and he goes you know what it's fine if you end up having a daughter all you have to do is think about some day someone's gonna fuck your daughter somebody said that to our faces and this is someone we liked this was not some like creep in the shadows this is like a normal person we interacted with on a daily basis and it was so shocking to me because if he's gonna say that in front of our faces what kind of terrible language is he using about women and girls behind our backs anyone's back and not only that but the structure of that sentence matters right he didn't say your daughter's gonna have sex someday because of course she will I hope she loves sex but the sentence was that it's gonna happen to her as if she was gonna have like no agency in the matter and that matters the way that we talk like that and so it bothered me on so many levels because he was sexualizing my unborn child who I didn't even know what's a girl yet and then when we found out she was gonna be a girl instead of being super excited which I totally would have been before that comment because my entire life's work is about empowering women and girls so it's like awesome should have been this awesome moment my husband is so excited but I was just I felt this tremendous weight on my shoulders I felt like what is this going to be like if this is the kind of bullshit we have to navigate from people we like and trust you know in California seemingly progressive place it was just it was a moment for me and and shocking that that's how insidious this behavior can be and a bit again he's not like a bad guy and I think that's important is that we are like oh he couldn't have done that he's such a good guy it's like put all of us are capable of good and bad at varying degrees all the time forever like it's just sort of a silly argument to be like but he's mostly good like okay but we still have to address what's happening is that I don't walk around saying things like that that like deeply offend someone in my life I just I don't think I do yeah I think generally very respectful person so it's like why can't we get the same courtesy so yeah I think it's I think what's helpful too is to know that people can change I have said horrible things in my life when I was a kid I was a little and I would say things just to get for the shock value right just to get somebody to laugh or to make some get a reaction out of somebody and part of it is growing up and maturing but then also I think culture can also mature of course all of us are maturing and we all have these terms now that we didn't have before that we should be using again a good way like we're starting to articulate what is sexual harassment what is sexual assault what does constitute as that and how do we refer to you know like just these different ways to refer to each other in a good way we finally have the vocabulary to talk about the nuances that happen and so I think that's really exciting and I totally agree it's again everyone is capable of good and bad varying degrees so it's I'm not like he's a bad guy he's just that's a surface level like a symbol of a larger problem in our culture that that's what the film is about it's like how are the ways in which that we raise our girls and boys perpetuating ultimately this behavior or how is our legal system set up where it ends up silencing victims instead of making them want to come forward we're seeing so many examples of women who do come forward women and men that come forward and are silenced in many different ways you know or let's talk about masculinity and how it doesn't really talk so masculinity rather doesn't really serve anybody it really doesn't serve the men that are you know exuding it and it doesn't serve the women to to which they're you know dehumanizing in a lot of situations so the film is really not about like you're bad you're good or this is right or this is wrong it's like let's just take a look at our culture and what's happening and how all these forces really do come together to perpetuate this cycle of behavior so again it's just not about this one perpetrator this one CEO that's a terrible harasser we have to remember that there's a whole system of people that helped uplift that person or helped them hide there behavior so it's not just the one person it's all of us it's me too it's like how to be all yeah no but really how do we all do better and what can I do well I can speak up and sit in situations where I'm being spoken to an offensive way or I can speak up for others I can't I can be I don't need to be an impartial bystander as they call it like there's the you know that's part of a lot of the trainings that people do that I'm doing talking with is like how do we encourage bystanders to speak up when they're not even involved in the situation whether it's assault harassment even just offensive language how do we empower the people around us to take action too so that it's not just all on the victim so yeah I think that's really I've been filming for a year now on and off and it's been quite enlightening and challenging and you know so far outside my comfort zone I've definitely been forced to check my own blind spots and privileges and it's easy to it'd be very easy to make like a white feminist film and that's not what I want to make I really want to be as inclusive as possible and represent as many perspectives as I can which is not easy and you can't please everyone but I'm doing my best to ask those uncomfortable questions yeah when when you're making a film like this and in a lot of ways it's kind of like walking on egg shells or trying to make sure that you don't start all somebody away who could really get value from the film and I think a large part of that comes from tone is totally is and that's something that really has to come through in every part of the film from the very interviews yeah from even you know obviously before the interviews but say when you sit down to interview somebody you want to make sure that the tone of that conversation comes across in the right way and that because that's how you're really going to be able to create a film that people can look that objectively and and get something from and really change their mind and perspective on something from yeah I think my sort of thesis of the project is like to inform uplift and inspire it's like I don't want people to leave the theater or the screening or whatever like feeling like ugh the world's terrible and we're never going to get this right like that's the opposite of how I want people to feel it's really the tone of I had no idea it was this bad or I had never heard those experiences before and now I feel like I have the tools to help others in the future or how can I examine my own behavior my own biases and privileges so that I can be a better ally in the workplace so that's really what it's about to me and I hope that comes across as the overall tone of the film is less like you're the worst you f-d up it's like no we're all complicit in some way to this society this culture so how can we all be better I love it can't wait to check out the film do you want to do quick questions okay quick questions on quick answers so feel free to elaborate great I think I need to get a jingle for that I think so I think I need to get a jingle I have one jingle for the show if I bring it up I have to play the jingle I'm going to bring it up and I'm going to play the jingle so we talked about the rock before the show I don't know if you saw I recently did a jingle competition it's the it was the official get the rock on mass podcast jingle competition and Sam Tier was the winner and he made this jingle hey the rock don't be in the likes if Matt's invite to do the ground up show pretty good Sam Tier actually met Sam Tier I went to London a couple weeks ago and I hand a liver to trophy to him for winning it just happened I didn't go potentially just for him you call if you did maybe I did but anyway yeah I think I just came up with the worst accused to play that jingle but it was just that I think that I could use another jingle so maybe I'll hit up Sam Tier and maybe we can make it out of we'll see anyway quick questions okay what is the simplest advice for young creators that's the most important for them to follow I would say don't wait for a feeling of being ready because that just won't ever come you don't need anyone else's permission to get started on your dream whatever that looks like for you just take a couple steps see how those feel take a couple more before you know it you've got a film I mean really just each day chip away at your goal how do you get through doubt hmm well now that I'm a few films and it's nice that I can look back on past reactions to my work or you know moments where I really felt that this journey was worthwhile those moments really pull me through and I do get a lot of wonderful feedback on my films that I save and I can reflect upon so when I'm feeling doubt especially with the film like nevertheless where there's a lot of I enough am I the right person to be telling his stories and looking everything that's unfolding in our country every day and I really thinking that I'm going to take this on there's a lot of that in my head but there's also this other voice that says well if not you then who and if not now then when so if you could go back to let's say 22 years old what would you do differently what would you tell the younger version of yourself let's see well it's always good to save money oh my god it's such a good one I'm a good saver but I think I didn't even know what I was saving for it was just like people say you should save money but I would have done that times 10 and as much as I possibly could have because when I started to make the empowerment project it was a good year and a half that I had zero paycheck and it was totally worth it and I had to lean on my savings so had I known that I was really going to like drop everything and work and go towards this dream ferociously I probably would have saved a little bit differently so that's just a good advice for anybody save your money oh my god absolutely be smart with your money yes one book that I would plug and recommend is the total money makeover by Dave Ramsey that certainly helped me a lot I think a lot of times it's helpful to have a playbook to have a little bit of an idea what does it mean to save your money what does it mean to get out of debt and to not put yourself into further amounts of debt totally uh money so important and to wrap up this podcast I have one more question okay what is the best way for people to find you online where should we send it to um Instagram at Sarah Moshman S.A.R.A.H. M.O.S.H. M.A.N. and my website is Sarah Moshman.com Sarah thank you so much for doing the podcast thanks for having me thanks for listening to the ground up show if you're getting some value from the podcast you can support the show on Patreon every month I create exclusive videos exploring lifestyle design minimalism creativity and business these vlogs and AMA podcast episodes which can be found nowhere else give a rarely seen look into my work and personal life help support the show for the cost of a cup of coffee a week and get access to all this content at patreon.com slash mat deevela again that's patreon.com slash mat deevela thanks for listening and I'll see you next week
