# The Biggest Benefit of Minimalism (For Me)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VE6cbKCeFk0
Amber's book:  https://choosewonder.com
The Podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

In this video I chat w/ Amber Rae about our definition of success and I talk about the biggest benefit I've received from adopting a minimalist lifestyle.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** minimalism changed my life, simple living, benefits of minimalism, declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalism, minimalist, simplicity, create, creator, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, amber rae, interview, choose wonder, wonder over worry, choose wonder over worry, 
**Date:** 2018-06-08

## Transcript
 We're in such a success-driven culture. It seems like achievement and material success in getting the things to prove to other people and also to prove to ourselves that we are something that we've done something, you know, that we're here for a reason. That doesn't go away even in a nontraditional world, right? So even in a world where we maybe are pursuing our own blogs, our own books, or on our own entrepreneurial path, those same ideas of success are still at play. So how do you drop it? Like how do you shed away these past ideas to put ourselves on the right course? For me, it was a shift from getting ahead to coming alive. And so getting ahead was competitive, coming alive was collaborative. Getting ahead was success by all means, no matter what get to the end goal. And coming alive was focusing on the process, focusing on the steps I can take each day that really serve the kind of work I want to be doing. And I feel like my old version of success was really doing what I thought I was supposed to do, what society wanted, and following that really traditional path. And, you know, I was really being driven by all these notions of I think what it looks like to be successful. And also as a woman in tech, which was a male-dominated industry, I had this desire to prove myself. And so I was hustling for approval and making these moves to really show, like, hey, look at me. I'm successful. But that led to this breakdown moment in this panic attack where I realized, like, whoa, this definition of success is actually not serving me. And why am I being driven in these ways? And what might success actually look like, or what might it actually feel like? Like, what does success feel like? I think we so attach it to outcomes rather than the process of getting there and how we want to feel in the process. And the reason we have goals is because we ultimately want to feel certain way. And so that's when I began to really peel back the layers of the definitions I was telling myself to, you know, create a new one. All right, take one. So around eight years ago, I decided to become a minimalist and that meant taking a look at the things in my life. So it was the material possessions that I currently had. It was going into my closet. It was pairing down, donating, getting rid of the stuff that I didn't need anymore, that other people could get value out of. But really, the biggest benefit came when I redefined my idea of success. Now, leading up to the point when I found out about minimalism had this idea of what success would look like for me. It usually involved a two-car garage, a swimming pool, large house, and all the toys and gadgets and things that would prove to everybody that I had finally made it. And when I started to realize that there was another path, another option that didn't involve all of these things. And when I really started to think deeply about how it would feel, as Amber said, to be happy, to be fulfilled and to feel successful, I started to realize that those things didn't really have a place in my picture sure. I wanted to have my basic needs met, but apart from that, when I thought about success, when I truly deeply thought about what would make me happy, it was more about experiences, spending time with family and friends. It was about growing my business and feeling challenged and solving really difficult problems. And that's one of the reasons why I called this week's podcast The Myth of Success. Because as much as we feel like we will eventually get to a place where we are perfectly happy content and our life is imbalanced, it's a continuous process and success is a moving target. Thanks for watching this video, I'm curious to know how you guys view success today, what would it look like to lead a successful life, leave your comments below, look forward to starting that discussion with you.
