# Living with a Minimalist
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vwQGBERPYds
I'm a minimalist. Natalie is not. In this video we attempt to answer your questions about money, clutter & how we manage to make this all work.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalism, minimalist, simple living, simplicity, relationships, relationship advice, advice, relationship problems, marie kondo, clutter, minimalist living, life, living, happiness, 
**Date:** 2018-08-06

## Transcript
 Okay, so we're going to be making a video now about Minimum! So this is a follow-up to a previous video we may call living with a non-minimolists But since then there has been one change in our life which has been that we got engaged We didn't get married yet. You keep saying that. It's not the same thing So a lot of people have said like oh like everything's gonna change. It's gonna feel different. No, no, it feels exactly the same Yeah, I'm trying to keep this pace safe. All I'm thinking about head is just still my bitch And I know you're gonna cut that out. I'm not your bitch. You're my bitch. That's not true. Our engagement was a little bit unconventional and that we talked about it a lot I think people generally do talk about their engagement quite a bit these days But we really like got into details about like not exactly when I was gonna do it But we knew that it was gonna happen over the summer and I helped orchestrate you asking for my dad's blessing Yeah, like there's a lot of transparency there. There was an a Pinterest board with the rings that you like oh Yeah, and I sent it to him and made him a collaborator to the board not to add but to you to view Yeah, I wasn't allowed to actually make any changes to it. I bought you an engagement ring But apart from that one ring I made you Have never gotten you any other jewelry. I know ever Makes it more meaningful to have one. I still have a lifetime of opportunities ahead of us for more at more jury I say that's the only one All right, so now to answer some of your questions about Minimalism and relationships. I got a question from Amos John. What's the hardest thing to ever happen to both of you because of Minimalism moving in is tough like not just in terms of like accumulating stuff But also like decor like I feel like your general style tastes A different to mine. I like there was that one time that you bought that heinous orange rug that looks like a cat Throwing up on it. You know, I thought I had function way, but no, I didn't you had function NAY That's a good one Any friction that happens is really because of our different tastes Question number two money news asks. Do you guys share money? I guess we could go all the way back to the very first date Yeah, because money played a role in the first date and it plays a role in like most couples relationships in the very beginning Because it's all about Who's gonna pay for things and no judgment? But I have judgment Over girls who don't want to split the bill come on. I don't want to have to deal with and I know this is sounds ridiculous But I don't want to deal with the burden of guilt that you paid for something and then I may not want to See you anymore, right like not talking Like kissing and like sex aside that I I may not want to see you anymore You know what I mean like about sex on this channel. This is a P.Joo channel. Sexual I'm gonna walk this situation off and I will see you later It's kind of like an independence though, too like you're very you're a very independent person I think it's like fueled by self preservation And childhood trauma We're keen back the layers. I'm working on minimalism, but my boyfriend isn't when you guys moved in together Did you have trouble finding space for her belongings? I think every space is inherently Limited to its constraints There's only so much stuff That you can have so surely here's noticing this term like isn't a subjective Very likely there's only so much stuff you can bring and I think it starts with having a Conversation with your partner about if you feel like that you are too cluttered Then you need to talk about that and you need to figure out a way to remedy it I think that if you set up systems in place and you maybe optimize your storage That's one way to help especially if you're dealing or living with somebody who isn't a minimalist We're like they're not willing to give her to their stuff All right, I'm gonna set up a system so we can maybe have storage under the bed We can have like additional places to store things in the closet to keep everything tidy and organized because I mean when it even comes down to to me and all the camera gear that I own I actually own a lot of stuff And if we counted all my camera gear it's probably more stuff than what you own But I've developed a system where I keep everything in cabinets in the same place So even when I'm shooting videos or in between shooting videos I can tuck it all away. It's nice and organized and I don't feel okay. Maybe it's a storage thing like maybe Jennifer's partners stuff could benefit from a storage system, you know Like I mean my closet a mess, but but even like your closet. It's a mess But we have like the rack with the shoes on it like we're you are spaced to the bed That we choose on the floor everywhere. Yeah, I mean it's the little things like that and you it has to be adapted to your environment because We wouldn't have the same like if we had a bigger closet space for you. We would probably do it a little bit different Yeah, it's a basis says do you ever fight about being messy? How do you manage the housework? Do we fight I don't think we ever fight about being messy? But you should take this question because we should and you don't let it get to you I just take I pick up all your stuff and I just throw in the closet And you're fine with that. I'm fine with it, and it seems to work well for us. Yeah, I kind of have like a system That I think helps to keep the place tidy You enjoy it He loves it I think the fact though that we don't have a lot of stuff combined Yeah, I mean if you think about most people's houses, they have tons of shit They have 300,000 items in their homes Yeah, so if you look at our home like people actually do come here and they're like oh well Yeah, you guys are minimalist really Yeah, like whenever I have some room for the podcast or like oh, yeah, you guys or and I'm like I don't Well, we put stuff. That's what I said Yendang asks is it possible to share more how you achieve the level of letting your partner be who she is and make peace with it? What do you mean make peace with it? Yeah, make peace with all their fault I kind of offended Yendang Yeah What you're trying to suggest? It starts with yourself like being happy with who you are Being confident who who you are and most importantly being self aware I think to your credit you're very self aware You can laugh at yourself if I can call you on your bullshit like if you're doing something that's like Maybe you're like poke poke my buttons or whatever Poke my buttons pushing my buttons Pop-pump-pump You've been looking at the lens right and not that no I've been looking at myself. I'm talking to me. Have you that? I have not looked at the camera one single time. I'm not joking Oh my gosh Thank you everyone for listening. That's it for the episode As always tune in and subscribe hit the subscribe button. We do videos all the time. We do podcast every Wednesday We'll actually do another one of these next month We'll do another one of these next month. Wait read the thing just read it We'll do another one of these next month. Ask your questions in the comments And a huge huge thank you to my fiance Natalie Pitt Give me a kiss Wait, we're not filming this again. You can include this in the video or be like a funny thing at the end Like you've been looking at the lens right now. No
