# This is how you get true job security.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W9XW93mdP_Y
For a limited time get 2 months of Skillshare Premium for free by going to https://skl.sh/mattdavella8. Thanks to Skillshare for sponsoring this video.

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links. All are my genuine recommendations): 

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2020-07-30

## Transcript
 So I remember a conversation I had with a friend just after graduating college. I was pursuing my own freelance filmmaking career. He was going more of the corporate nine to five route. And I was talking about some of the ups and downs, the risks and the benefits of following the path that I had chosen to go down. And he said that he could never in a million years do it because he just couldn't deal with the instability. And he said that he needed the job security. And I remember just nodding my head agreeing with him because sometimes we hear something so many times that we just take it for granted. We never second guess it. But what I learned in the decade that followed is that my friend was completely wrong when it comes to job security. I've only had a handful of real jobs in my life. There was that summer gig working at Trump's golf course in New Jersey. I didn't learn much from that job, but hey, I'm one of the few people in the world. I can say that they've cleaned the president's balls. Okay, let's be honest, that list is probably really long. And then there was the part-time job as a produce clerk at my local grocery store. But that ended after I made a parody rap video and got sued for $7 million by the grocery store. True story. The fresh treats, baby, they know what a million supply the highest quality of every food print. Moving on. It didn't take long for me to start to question whether this whole job thing was for me. And so when I started to make $100 a video as a freelance filmmaker back in 2008, I followed those breadcrumbs to see how far I could take it. That path was filled with doubt and uncertainty, but I learned a lot of valuable lessons about what everybody calls job security. When you have a job, the money that gets deposited into your account every other week is comforting. But it's really only giving you the illusion of security. The truth that I realized years ago and the truth that so many people are facing this year is that sadly your job is never guaranteed. And so if you want to ensure that you have an income, something to cover your basic needs and beyond, you need to do so much more than just land a job. And so in this video, I really want to talk about how to maintain and how to sustain income security. First, you need to become indispensable. You do this by getting really good at what you do. By investing your time and energy into mastering your craft, Malcolm Gladwell popularized the 10,000 hour rule. The idea being that if you want to master anything, you need to invest around 10,000 hours into your craft. Every great classical composer without exception composes for at least 10 years before they write their masterwork. Mozart is composing at 11, but he's composing garbage at 11. I mean, he doesn't produce something great until he's 20, 2 or 23. The exact number is really arbitrary and depends on what you're learning, but the main point being the best in the world weren't born great. The best artist, writers, and filmmakers all had to devote themselves to their work to get better. One of my favorite YouTubers, Mike Boyd has dedicated the past few years to learning new skills. And he's quantified the actual time, the exact hours it takes for him to learn new things. People really resonate with that idea of quantifying something in hours. It's much more tangible and understandable and eight hour shift at work. That's something you understand and when someone says, oh, it took me eight hours to learn to do this, it seems like you can do it. If someone says it took me six weeks to learn to do this, even though the actual time was only six hours or eight hours, that seems much more insurmountable. And he's learned a lot about learning. A couple of the things that I found really useful were scheduling and practice time for whatever you're doing in a way that doesn't really interrupt or disrupt your routine. So if you can reduce the barrier to practice as much as possible, then it just makes learning that much easier. Another tip to get better, he explains is isolating issues. If you just look at it in a more pragmatic way and do things bit by bit, you can identify problems in your technique, say, I've said with muscle ups. Identified that the issue really was not a strength issue. It was much more the actual technique of getting my arms over the bar. So I was able to isolate that issue with resistance bands, which then enabled me to get the technique down and then the strength came naturally there. I kind of started to think of learning as the discipline and undefeat self. Mike's experiment show you just how quickly you can pick up new things if you dedicate yourself to the process consistently. Of course, becoming a master at something, creating skills that are so valuable, you become indispensable to your boss or client is the next level. But that just takes repeated practice, working your way up to around 10,000 hours. In my experience as a freelancer, I realized that I had to continue to deliver project after project. If I screwed up, if I missed a deadline, if I didn't complete it on time, then I would never see that client again likely. There were very, there was very little room for screwing up and making mistakes. And so I had to learn very quickly. And I did deliver, then I saw those clients come back over and over again. I was able to increase my income. I was able to develop my skills even more. And so that process, that quick feedback loop helped to push me forward. This was the first step that really helped me gain true income security. The second is just as practical and has to do with money and creating financial freedom. When you have a job and buy into the idea of job security, you assume that your income will always be there. You rarely ever think about the worst that could happen. Or maybe you're simply pushing it to the back of your mind and pretending like it could never happen. But the truth is that you could lose your job. But since you're not thinking about it, you can't prepare for it. I think perhaps the most valuable thing that I took away from my years of freelancing was that I never had a stable income. I never had that consistent bi-weekly paycheck that I could rely on. And that might not sound like a good thing to you, but it taught me to be really conservative and really thoughtful about the money that I was saving and to prepare for the absolute worst case scenario. As a freelancer, I never had the illusion that I had a secure income. I would have busy months and slow months. Some months I made $1,000. And other months I made $10,000. And so I learned that if I wanted to weather these storms, I needed to learn how to control my finances and my spending. I didn't realize it at the time, but since I was entering into this market that was completely unstable. Trying to build my own business, trying to find new clients, and desperately struggling in the beginning. My entire career path was defined by this idea that I might not be able to have enough money to pay rent this month. And so that forced me to be extra conservative and extra responsible when I finally did get those projects. I started out by storing away $1,000 for my emergency fund. I would not touch this unless I absolutely had to. This wasn't for beers on the weekend. It was for the broken down car or the potential medical bill. The unexpected will happen, so planning for the unexpected becomes absolutely vital. After that, I started to build up this emergency fund even more. I eventually built it from $1,000 to $5 and then $10,000 and eventually over $20,000. The idea was that this money would give me padding. What I didn't realize at the time was that this was providing me with true freedom. Now if I got sick or if I couldn't work, I would have my basic needs met for at least six months or a year. And the weight that was removed and lifted off my shoulders because of this was immense. It also allowed me to pursue the things that I really cared about. When I had that sense of security that padding provided me, I was able to say no to projects and clients that I didn't care about, that didn't have the budget and focus my energy and time on things that really excited the hell out of me. And I cannot tell you how much that has changed my life. Planning for the worst and having the discipline to save over a year's worth of expenses gave me a sense of freedom that I had never experienced up until that point. Regardless of whether you're a freelancer, a business owner or if you have a career, the principles are still the same. Get really, really good at what you do. Try to improve every single day and invest back into yourself and then be smart about your finances. Put money away for rainy days and build up as much financial security as you can. So the best advice I could give is really simple. Just start. You'll feel like a total new and it will be totally cringy. But you're not period where you're just picking up something is when you're going to make the biggest progress and all you have to do is get out with the door and start. This video is brought to you by my friends at Skillshare. Use Skillshare to take classes on creativity, productivity and business. Mike Boyd who I interviewed for this video actually has a Skillshare class of his own which I highly recommend you check out. In the class he teaches you how to learn new things by covering best ways to practice effectively, how to push through the dip and everything he's discovered about how humans are wired to learn. In this lesson, I'm going to share with you some research that really helped forged my way of thinking my mindset that I use day and day out. Because Skillshare is sponsoring this video, you can sign up with the link in the description and get a two month free trial. After that, Skillshare is really affordable and annual subscription is less than $10 a month. I think so often we don't get started because we're scared, we're overwhelmed, there's just so much to take in. But whether you're building a new skill, really developing and honing in on your craft, or if you're saving for a rainy day and building up that emergency fund to provide financial security for your future, you really have to just take the smallest steps. It doesn't feel like it's going to make a big difference if you take this step today or tomorrow. You might not even see that progress for eight hours, a hundred hours or more. But if you continue to put in those small steps, you'll eventually get where you need to go. And you'll start to see those little winds along the way that keep you going. And so I hope that this video helped you out, especially if right now you're facing hard times. If you don't have a job or if you're looking for one or if you've struggled to keep one in the past, I hope that you're able to really put these principles into practice because I know just how much it has helped me in my own life. Thank you guys so much for watching and I will see you next time.
