# Build an Instagram Audience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wdG905fThGs
http://www.groundupshow.com

Photographer Dylan Schwartz talks with Matt D’Avella about how he curated his Instagram feed to grow his audience to over 90k followers.

Watch the full episode at http://www.mattdavella.com/046

Follow Dylan on Instagram: https://goo.gl/BTB79c

Thanks for watching! Please leave a review on iTunes if you got some value out of the show: https://goo.gl/c4Pvnv
**Keywords:** ground up, the ground up show, podcast, audience, influencer, dylan schwartz, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, 
**Date:** 2018-02-14

## Transcript
 When did you start getting interested in Instagram? Was it early on? Yeah, I think it was around 2012. I was working for Sachi and Sachi in the sense of bunch of us to South by Southwest. And part of the requirement for everyone that was going, we had to all share our trip on our Twitter and Instagram and use their hashtag. I'm like, okay, fine, I guess I'm going to create an Instagram account. And yeah, my first post is, I think, from the airplane landing in Austin. And, you know, I probably spent the first two or three months using it, like, you know, everyone else does, you know, pictures of food and stuff. Yeah, that's my girlfriend. That's my girlfriend. Nothing but food. Nothing wrong with that. Yeah, there we go. But I took a trip to Big Sur after a few months after that. And, you know, just sort of started taking pictures of just the natural environment there. And immediately, I think as soon as I, like, maybe the second post I did from Big Sur, kind of, like, something clicked for me. It's like, I saw a big increase in sort of, like, the amount of likes and comments and engagement. My post were getting, and we back then it was like, oh, it was getting three instead of one. Yeah, but it's an indicator. But it's an indicator, like, wow. Okay, so there's a connection here between, you know, the quality or just, like, the, the, how compelling the content is and then how it performs. And I think that's, as an artist, like, that's all you need to, like, know, is that, okay, the better I make this, the more people are going to see it and the more people are going to appreciate it. That sort of, that seed, I think, was all I needed to kind of get me going and really kind of pull me into the app. It's definitely, I think, changed my, changed my life, changed my career. It's pretty amazing. Pretty amazing with it, Epstein. Did you call yourself a photographer at that point? Absolutely not. No. And we're, the, you were shooting on your phone at this time, or you, you started actually, Yeah. Shoot on a legit camera. No, that point was all, also on my phone. I think I had gone on the extra step and gotten one of those, like, lens adapters from my phone. Yeah. So I was a little fancy, but that was about it. I had a, had a camera, I just bought four, actually, one of my honeymoon and I wanted to get, like, a nice camera, just like any tourist would. So I started playing around with DSLRs, but, you know, at that point, I really considered myself, you know, a designer and art director. I didn't really consider myself a photographer. But it's funny because that's photography is actually like where I really started back in the day in high school. And so for me, it was kind of going back to my roots and, you know, sort of learning something that I'd sort of always, kind of love, but never really had a reason to get back in. I think Instagram became that reason, and then it was sort of, it was full, you know, full speed ahead from there. Yeah. Were there any moments where, as you're, you're developing, developing this Instagram account and you start to get more and more traction, where you go from three likes to 10,000 or whatever it is. What's that journey look like? And what's that concept? I guess what's the, how did that play out? Sure. So yeah, I get started with, you know, actually me and a friend of mine who kind of joined at the same time, and we were kind of like jokingly competing with each other to see who could get to like a thousand followers first. And like, figuring out if you hashtag this or hashtag that, you're going to get more likes. And, and started doing it, but I just, you know, I became, I think you see this like, you get, you get, as an artist, you get a little obsessed with it because it's such a great feedback loop for you. Because you're so like, wow, I'm going to take this, I wasn't, I was all of my iPhone still. I was doing some traveling and just taking photos as I was traveling with the iPhone, but I was using a lot. I was probably posting like three times a day. Oh wow. And do you post that much still? I don't. But yeah, I was posting a lot back then. And, and actually, I've probably got to about 2000 followers just from just using it a lot. I think Instagram kind of incentivizes you to post and use the app a lot. And so kind of like, you know, you gain followers. And I think when I had about 2000, I became, Instagram made me a suggested user for about a week. Something they don't do anymore. They did it back then. And sometimes when you're a suggested user, some people will get like 200,000 followers, some people would 400,000. Some people would get 5,000. I got 20,000 followers from it. That's insane. So yeah, it's crazy. It literally was just one week. We were like, okay, cool. Now I have 20,000 followers. Yeah, it's insane. I was going to turn it on and then you start getting like literally hundreds of followers. Like it remin it. It's kind of crazy. That's, I mean, I was thinking about that because I mean, I'm pretty early in the game and creating original content and putting it out there. But like you have from a point where your whole audience, right? You kind of see it in audience of 2000 people. And then it jumps up to 20,000. And now your audience isn't the same. Right? Right? You're not even two. Those people, you have to kind of build that relationship over again from scratch. True. And it's interesting because it kind of changed the way I used it, too. I felt like all of a sudden, you know, I went from being in a living room with a few friends to being on stage, you know, like the audience. Yeah. Oh boy, I have to take this a little more seriously now.
