# Making Minimalism - Episode 1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wFIuZhOxG6c
Take a look behind the scenes to see what it took to make Minimalism: A Documentary About The Important Things. Watch the full series and more videos on simple living:  http://www.mattdavella.com

Creating it was simple, but not easy. A few years back I joined Josh & Ryan from The Minimalists to travel across the country and interview people about how simple living had changed their lives. It was a long road to get here.

Now I'm going back and deconstructing how we made it from the very beginning. You’ll get a look at unseen footage as I detail all of our big wins, breakthroughs & discoveries. This is episode 1 of a series called Making Minimalism. Find out about the origins of the idea, how we put together our team and our game plan heading into production.

Subscribe for the next episode!

More from me:

Website:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Podcast:  https://www.mattdavella.com/podcast
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/matthewdavella

Featuring
The Minimalists http://www.theminimalists.com
SPYR:  https://spyr.me/

Music Credits
Background Hip Hop Beat by BerryDeep
Sandbox by Silent Partner
Big Bird's Date Night by Twin Musicom (twinmusicom.org)
Morning Stroll by Josh Kirsch/Media Right Productions
That Hip-Hop by Trendsound
About That Oldie by Vibe Tracks

Thanks for watching! I'm grateful for your support.
**Keywords:** making minimalism, minimalism, documentary about the important things, film, doc, director, directing, making of, behind the scenes, the minimalists, 
**Date:** 2017-03-23

## Transcript
 I didn't realize how many people I actually watched Netflix, and it's apparently a lot. Just the massive reach. I mean, just through traffic was mind bodily. I don't think this is anything that any of us could have expected from the start. People go, you got to check out this documentary. I watched that documentary, the minimalist. There's a cool little movie I'll call it, the minimalist. So a couple years ago, my friends and I decided to make a movie, and when we first started out, we had no idea what we were doing. We'd never done anything like this before, and inevitably we made a lot of mistakes, but we also learned a lot. So what I want to do right now is go back and deconstruct how we made this film from the very beginning, how we went from nothing to Netflix. This is episode one of a new series I'm calling Making Minimalism. Hey guys, my name's Matt Diavella and I directed Minimalism. So a few years ago, before this project ever got started, I met two guys named Josh and Ryan. They wrote for a website called theminimalist.com where they talked about simple living and how their lives had radically changed by getting rid of most of their stuff. So we became friends shortly after that, and within a couple months, Josh wrote me an email. It was really the foundation for how this film started. The subject line for the email was simply idea. Matt, I've been kicking around the idea of doing the minimalist documentary for a while. And I think the tour might be a good time to shoot footage for it. Would you be interested in discussing partnering on a project like this? If so, we can chat via phone and I'll give you my ideas and pick your brain for yours. I look forward to the embrace of your olive skin and meatball Parmesan fragrance. Okay, so that part wasn't actually in the email, but you know, it's frustrating. You go to one Mexican restaurant and you order an Italian sausage, hogey, and all is said in now everything is a joke about how Italian nor whatever I get it. So anyway, a couple of days after that email, I got on a call with Josh. We talked about this project, and we narrowed down the concept a little bit. We decided we wanted to call it minimalism and talk about their story, but also talk with experts and figure out really how we came to this point in our society. So we had the idea, now we had to put together a team. So we had Josh and Ryan from the Minimalists. As producers, among their many duties, they landed and conducted most of the interviews. So here's what we're going to do. We're going to have a conversation. They help provide the vision for the film, and they handled every aspect of promotion and distribution down the road. I had no expectations. I was just really happy that we had you to who volunteered, like go on tour with us and film everything. As a producer, director, my role was pretty vast. I filmed most of the content, helped schedule and conduct interviews. I did research, edited the film. As the director of a film, you're pretty much in charge of steering the ship and giving guidance along every aspect of the film. And then we brought on Jeff Marla and Dave. They built our website, created every design associated with the film. They were also instrumental in handling research and providing feedback along the way. Everyone just came to the table. We understood that there was a film that we were trying to make. In terms of budget, it was about as minimal as you could get zero dollars. The six of us who were executive producers were responsible for funding the film. We didn't have any shadow governments or large companies behind this project. Do we have no budget whatsoever? We all did this as a passion project. Although I do have to say Josh and Ryan contributed most of the funds up front. I have to give them so much credit for believing in this film from the beginning. Lastly, we brought on Drew and Nate, incredibly talented music composers. More than anything else they helped to shape the tone of the film. At this point, we just needed something to actually film. We booked this insane hundred city tour, eight countries, hundred and nineteen events. Ryan and I just finished writing a book about the last five years of our lives from being the student-tie corporate guys to minimalists. So now we're going to get out on the road for ten months this year and promote that book. But really promote a message we really believe in. And so our outlook on this was, hey, I don't know what's going to come out of any of this. So why not this time go out and try to film it? Along the way, let's try to interview some other minimalists. And then maybe, just maybe we can turn that into a documentary. Before I set off on the road with Josh and Ryan, I still needed to get all of the things required to make our film. You know, just the basics. A backpack, shotgun, my two wireless mics, a camera, two lenses. Oh, and another camera for over there. A windscreen for the shotgun mic. Doesn't this look nice? What do you call it? A gobro? Go pro. That makes more sense doesn't it? Only to all the accessories that go along with it. And all to a recorder to capture live events, plus the necessary cables, batteries, battery chargers, the time lapse controller, compact flashcards, three hard drives, two tripods, and one big light that probably won't fit in our car. In all seriousness, I didn't go out and buy all this stuff just for the film. I had it already except for the C300. That is something that I purchased specifically for this film. The rest of it, I had to choose from even more gear on top of this to figure out exactly what was going to be useful, exactly what I could bring out on the road with me, and I could be quick and not have to worry about my gear holding me back. Real quick, I want to talk about preparation. We planned a little bit before we went out and started filming, but honestly, we did not do that much. We had a Google Doc, a couple of Google spreadsheets to organize interviews. I actually had this journal here that I was writing in, where I tried to organize and create scenes and checklists, much of it that was never used. One of my favorite quotes is by Mike Tyson. He says, everybody has a plan until they get punched in the face, and that was very much the case with this film. We had to just get out there, start shooting, see what we got, and then go from there. So this is actually really funny. I was going through this journal. It's January 2nd, 2014, and I say, this documentary is huge for me. It may not win any awards or be seen by many people, but it's the biggest step I've made towards something meaningful, something with a real purpose. I'm going to give this film everything I have. Like we said, we didn't have any expectations for this film. We didn't really have any goals. All we knew is we had an idea. We had a message that we wanted to get across. So one last thing that we did, which was a little bit unconventional before we started actually filming for the documentary, we created and released a teaser trailer. Imagine a life of less, less stuff, less clutter, less stress, debt, discontent. I want to say we originally did it to try to create a buzz for the film, and maybe it did that, but I think more than anything, more importantly than any buzz it could have potentially created for people excited about the film, was it got us excited about the film? It was the first time that we put this out there, and we said, hey, we're going to make a movie. And we kind of committed ourself on this idea. Now this was a real thing. We actually had to go out and make it. So we hit the road. We started to film this tour. We were traveling around the country, so it gave us the perfect opportunity to interview all these people we had heard about, who had been affected by this thing called minimalism. We had several 1,000 hours worth of footage, sort of looking at you, and you're dropping off of the airport, like, good luck with that, man. To see the next episode and to watch more videos on simple living, go to my website, Mattievella.com. We can chat via phone, and I'll give you my ideas, take your brain for yours. I look forward to the embrace of your alls, but you why did I say that? No, you didn't. That sounds like something else. Yeah, I think now that we know each other, you would say that. I look forward to the embrace of your olive skin and the smell of your apartment. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, here we go. In the smell. You can't do this. You sure I didn't write this line? I look forward to the embrace of your olive skin and meatballs, Parmesan fragrance. There we go. It's good. How do I get you like clivered on that last line,
