# Ground Up 024 - Live Your Own Journey w/ Matthew Nadu
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wJxy1m2DIQw
http://www.groundupshow.com

Matthew Nadu is an actor, producer & filmmaker that lives on a boat off the coast of Los Angeles. We discuss how he went from living under a bridge in NYC to creating meaningful content.

Find out more about him here: http://www.matthewnadu.com

http://www.groundupshow.com
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2017-09-19

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the ground-up show. My name is Matt Diavella and I'm your host today on the show I've got Matt Nadyo. He is a good friend. He is a filmmaker actor and producer. He's incredibly talented and he's got a lot of great stories to tell. I think you're gonna you're gonna really like this episode But first before we get into that a little bit of housekeeping If you like this podcast and you like the minimalism a documentary about the important things I've got something for you. I recently conducted interviews with the producers of minimalism To give a detailed look at how we made the film We cover all the twists turns and big breakthroughs and there's an incredible amount of wisdom Packed into these interviews and I think they're gonna help anybody who's really starting out on something new somebody who wants to tackle a big project or maybe somebody who just wants to get a better understanding of how this film came about and and how We were able to put it all together So those interviews are yours for free. If you leave a review for the ground-up show on iTunes Reviews help to get the word out for the show and help us to continue to do what we do here So to get an immediate access to the interviews take a screenshot over your review and send it to hello at Matt Diavella.com And now without further ado, this is episode 24 Matt Nadyo All right, Matt Nadyo. How are you doing sir? What's going on, man? Now I'm good. I love that intro. Makes me feel like I'm like walking down the streets of Brooklyn That's it. Just the the theme music to your life. Yeah, thanks for coming on the show Thanks for having me, man Welcome to LA I know I'm excited to be here. Dang man. It's only been a couple weeks. I feel like I'm starting to settle in You've been here for a few months now That's like a year like a little over year ago a year and you like I'll make it all time right now I mean when people were like oh, man like two weeks look at you Yeah, that I feel like way more people move from the east coast to the west coast than vice versa Yeah, I don't really know anyone from California that Move to the east to move anything move to New York and just why would just I mean realistic why was great while was it religion? In the Philadelphia region. I gotta be honest. It like every Sunday morning. It's packed It's like before people go to church. They go to walla. Oh, wow, then they go to church So what it what's the whole walla experience for people who have no idea what walla is or have never been to a walla Why is it so amazing? All right, so I don't even know where the term walla came from But I've been reading a lot of John mur lately if you don't know John mur is looking up You pretty much created the national park system, but he's a cali guy and he's talking about being in Alaska and finding these These glaciers and he keeps saying the word walla now I don't know if it's like a term for a Native American tribe up there or whatever it is But walla is basically like the mecca of gas and food and Lottery tickets in Philadelphia. I don't know how they do it's a cheapest gas. They have free ATMs and they're the best damn sandwiches Don't sandwiches. Oh my god, it's like seasonal. Yeah, they're like that's like the future of sandwich making is that you have the screen That you can walk up to and then you can just create it there There's no stress to it. No, no time nothing and you can browse around and you know fill up a I'll slush you halfway full drink that a little bit while you're waiting Yeah, break up a pizza soft pretzel. They're saying you're standing and there's an art to it for sure Oh, no definitely tell everybody a little bit about what you currently do As a producer actor you're one that wears many hats. So kind of run us through where you spend most of your time right now Yeah, so I'm one of those guys I kind of get my hands and everything and I guess we both went to Temple University, right? I guess that was in there being in the media They're like oh man like newspapers aren't gonna be the thing anymore in TV and you got to learn So I get my hands a lot of stuff. I've been working on a lot of films I have a film that's premiering on BET September 16th. It's called secrets That I acted in so that's coming out pretty soon, and that's kind of cool But I've been doing a lot of content creating lately My girlfriend hope she's here. She works at MPR and she's like incredible it Just we just travel we travel everywhere and we put together these like 60 second like travel videos on Kind of like millennials that are creatives and freelancers that we do that You know we have this opportunity to create beautiful content, but it doesn't always have to be stuff that we don't want to create Like you know we have our clients and we're like, you know you're doing You know industrials or whatever, but we can also get out and make our own stuff and the beauty with social media now is Did you become an influencer like you you're an influencer man like you're you're pushing this small-time with minimalism and pushing all this stuff like people look up to you and they're like We're the forefront of this this new reality and it's like new world and it's like how do you create for that? So I've been learning I was doing feature film production for a while And it was just so overwhelming and it was so stressful and there was a couple of projects I literally put two years into it and all my connects and all my resources and they just Kind of fizzled out or you know what I mean? It's just takes one person and kind of jumpship and everything kind of rocks So kind of like you just creating your own content and it doesn't have to be you could be simple You just go out get it get a camera and just shoot that's the the difference though Is that now like you're saying with social media? Everybody has access to these platforms everybody has access to YouTube and Twitter and we're not But it doesn't necessarily mean that you have the skills that are gonna prop you up and that are gonna get the message out there You're somebody who has developed these skills over the years You can shoot really beautiful video So you going out there and telling a story whether you're in Vietnam or you're up the coast in California Those stories I feel like you can you can tell the story in a much richer way and you can Because it's a lot of these mediums are so visual, but also there's this storytelling element So just because somebody has an iPhone doesn't mean and they have access to Instagram doesn't mean They're gonna make something that's worth watching. Not necessarily, but the thing is you can make something And that's the first step. That's the thing. Yeah, you know, I mean because at one point like I'm an idiot in a lot of the things like I don't know what I'm doing and I Love to Try to learn and see What are you doing? What's my stuff look like compared to yours and what are you doing that? I like and kind of pull a little bit from that Yeah, and I think it's great to you know have your own originality and to create your own thing But I mean everything that we do we're stealing from somebody else like our technique or whatever We're doing especially in the beginning when you're first starting to learn a medium That's I remember just watching my friends and and people who I have been friends of friends with on Facebook and and my space and just seeing the work that they were Are a little bit a little bit. I once I went to college That's when Facebook started to take over But I was definitely on there and definitely had a film maker friends who were putting out videos and whether it was just like a video of His the person's backyard And like they just colored it in a certain way or they they made a short film A sketch comedy video. I would just get so inspired by that and I would just copy it Yeah, I'm just gonna take that and do that same exact thing and then put it out there At that time it's I feel like you can't do that once you get too far into it, but that's how you learn yeah Even the phenomenon of Instagram I remember thinking like what does this and like oh my gosh you could put these filters and all this stuff and It made everybody with a with a iPhone think that they were a professional photographer Yeah, you know when did you first start getting into a film making and Creative arts. Oh, man, so I went to Temple University and I got my first job. I was actually one of the main people at Temple Association of Black Journalists. No, I don't this the video on the hunt I'm not black, but they had the most interactive Club and they were just doing so much thing. It's so many amazing alumni I get him with that and I set up our end of the year kind of get together and Chris Blackman who at the time was a news director of NBC and Philadelphia It was like oh your Matt need to and I'm like yeah, and he's like you got a job after college I'm like now he's like you got one at NBC, so I started out being a PA there But it was kind of like what we're doing now. I was a production assistant and I all I want to do was sports So I would get in it like my shift was like forward a 11 a.m On the morning desk, but I would get in like super early and I'd stay super late. I basically lived there And I would just start writing columns and just start writing articles for him and and I realized social media was just coming out So I could do all this stuff and no one else there wanted to learn it You know everybody else was like in the 30s and 40s like oh this social media stuff's gonna pass So I was very blessed to be on the forefront of that so I started creating there and I didn't really want to work for the man because you work for news. You know there's an agenda and you know what they're pushing so I did an interview on endlight Shyamalan was doing the last airbender I don't recommend seeing that music, but And I was interviewing someone about it and they're like oh you should Go off of the casting and I'm like, well, what is that like you know we're meeting up wherever and filly So it was up at the tasty cake warehouse and we're up in the northeast I went in and I actually this is kind of a funny story so I get in there and it was for Marshall artist so I go in and I went on YouTube and I'm trying to learn like juditsu moves like the day before like I'd never done any karate before this I did when I was like I was a fat kid And I was like really funny and I couldn't even reach down and touch my kneecaps so my karate Create a short live that 11 years old, but so I go there and It's just huge warehouse and everybody there's like a black belt these guys are doing back flips and crazy stuff And I'm wearing like Nike running shorts and like a shirt that like I made a cut off because I like ripped it with my teeth Earlier that morning. Yeah, so I get in there and I'm sitting. I'm like maybe acting isn't for me Maybe I should just stick this for us and there's a kid next to me and he like he's leaned over and he puts this headband on like his Criday kid had been pulls it and sits up and the kid has down syndrome and he is like so Amped up for this audition and I look at him and I just got off the phone with my mom saying now I'm gonna bail I'm like look how amped up this kid is like Zero cares in the world. I'm like if this kid goes in and I don't have the balls to go in like I got a real value Everything I'm doing so I go in and I got like background stuff But I kept trying to go in front of the camera so I was like a dp's horse nightmare So I was like the friends who were doing the thing I kept trying to slide in so the one day They're like you're in too many shots What's your name? We're gonna bump you up so I got like this bump and ended up joining the union and How do I decent amount of money off it? So that's kind of how my acting career started by default What made you decide to go to that audition? Why would it attracted you to it? Why I Don't I don't really know I guess it was the allure of of what we do you know being in film and There's big movie coming in and night shamblings from Philly and he's done all these the stuff and these in fantastic movies And I just kind of wanted to be a part of it and then I realized it was more than just You know hanging out at crafty all day eating as much food as I possibly could correct Was it hard work to be I mean you were an extra bump down to it was like an extra It was um we had to learn a lot of like karate routines and do all this stuff but honestly I just went we would go I were still was working at NBC so our call time was like six a.m. every day But it worked at NBC to 11 a.m. so I would come in like five hours late the PA would just still mark me on time But that got me into other stuff and then I started auditioning I learned a lot of stuff from a lot of the actors that were actually principles there So then I got in go with Diane here who runs casting out of Philadelphia and You know then eventually you know you start auditioning for bigger and better things and taking it seriously And seeing this is something that I actually want to do that you have there is a potential there You could you could somehow work your way up because I feel like that's all you need it's just a little bit of a taste Yeah, to realize that there is potential here. Yeah, and a lot of its connections like I was very blessed to meet people that were like hey I'll set you up with my agent or recommend me to talk to different people and I got very blessed again in because a lot of this industry even recommendations on stuff It's just like who you know yeah, and sometimes you have friends that are fantastic But they're workloads too big and they know that you do quality works like hey, could you do this for me? Yeah, what was that balance there because there is there is an Aspect of knowing the right people, but if you're not good then it doesn't matter who you know No, so that comes out too. Yeah, yeah, and it only bullshit so much sure So where do you go after that you you finish up the M. Night Shyamalan so I did that then I auditioned for random stuff. I've had a lot of Success in commercial like print and commercials and stuff so that's been fun to me a lot But I moved up to New York To try to get into the big stuff and I was doing a stunts and standing for this show This is like a couple years later stunts and standing for a show called power which is on encore right now Like 50 cents show so I got on that and I met so many people and it was funny because I'm doing like standing work, but I'm auditioning for like the same type of shows But like in between standing We'd have lunch and I would we were shooting at the Navy yard up in Brooklyn and I'd quick jump on the train and head in the Manhattan and go to one audition real quick and then jet back So it was cool because like all day like I would show a 50 cent and the guy is like one of the most smartest guys You can never imagine and I'd find myself at night like hanging out with them or doing X Y and Z and it's like I took this Stupid stand-in job But instead of just going there and just running through the motions I learned and like as a stand-in You have the DP there give the director give everybody there and they're all talking about the scenes and I could see how Everything kind of works And that's kind of how I started shifting into producing but right and and for people who don't know what a stand-in is it's You're there on set You you look like or at the same skin tone of somebody who's gonna be in your position and you basically have that a face It's it so but like like you said this is a job that most people would just kind of go in Be like oh, this is cool take the money and leave But yeah, to be able to you're you're in a position that most people aren't so you can kind of leverage that to make connections into Yeah, to somehow meet a person or two that might be able to help you I got a lot of jobs out there and believe it or not a lot of the producers are out in LA now. I hang out with them all the time, but Yeah, I got very blessed. I was actually living in my car in In Dumbo down under the Manhattan Bridge if you were aware of Dumbo. You were living under a bridge Yeah, I In your car. I was living in a car down by the river. That's good No, I found a parking spot and you could I would go Sunday mornings We'd have to be on set. I like 6 a.m. I would leave Philly because I was living in Philly and I would get there around 4 a.m. I'd park my car into the bridge But I was good all week Just you can just like there a week. So I would park there before anybody else would get there and he was like why if I there There was a gym there So I'd be on set for like 16 hours walk to my car beautiful like the bridge is there everything is great free Wi-Fi hit the gym It was a poor man's dream right so then that's where you can you can shower and you can yeah I could do all that rush your teeth right at the gym and I was staying at the studio as a lot I had a couple p.a.s that would just let me use The room so I kind of had like a apartment that you weren't always sleeping in your car. No, I slept there a lot And I mean I'm a huge huge forms And it's like from September to March. Wait, it's no sir. You kept the car on when you were sleeping No, I had a lot of blankets and a lot of blankets and a lot of Hoodies holy shit. It sounds crazy, but but rent so expensive in New York and I was paying for a place in filly at the time Yeah, and you're I don't want your parents in New York living so I just stuck with the car. You stuck with the car I mean actually I just found out about this. There's a story about this guy that was literally sleeping Under the bridge. He created a loft that was built into the bridge and he lived there for like a year That don't air being big so I feel yeah It's probably still a thousand bucks a month Yeah, even if it's living under the bridge, but that's amazing and that's like Man, I feel like you just sometimes you just got to do what you got to do if you if you want to get the job and you want to keep working like There's no or the way to do it, but it all comes back to like sacrifice and and willing this to learn Because I I would just Soak up everything I could on the actor side of things and it's a weird balance because I work in front and behind the camera So I booked a couple Films and I worked on 50 cent music video because of this and just I think no matter what you do just have to be willing to put yourself out there Because I've definitely let my ego step in and be like I know I'm too good for this or I've done this So I can't do this and then that's where I have a reality check that like man just step back and just learn Did the acting on camera help you when you started to move more behind the camera? Yeah, I did a feature called the church and I think it's coming out next year I had like Bill Mosley actually see William. She was on Human centipede Clinton Howard Ron Howard's brother. He's a hilarious guy, but we had all these great actors on there and I was producing and one of the leads on there So that was a weird balance working with all these like horror icons and Being there trying to learn from them as an actor, but then also having the step back as a producer And you know kind of change hats and be like hey, like this isn't working or we need to do this like the director It was the first time director and just He knew his vision, but he couldn't really relay it to his cast So he he was trying to work like 16 17 hours days and didn't understand why people needed to eat three times a day Or wise pizza not sufficient Every damn meal. Yeah, you know, so that was that balance where I I had to go back and forth and try to do that and I had it like just step in and be like hey like Like if I'm getting pissed off I know damn well these guys are getting pissed off. So you have to kind of create a balance and I tell a lot of my buddies that are directors Go to an acting class just see how actors think and how they do things and You know a lot of times it seems like acting. Oh the guy just comes and you know he goes on set and any leaves And this is an easy job especially when you're behind the camera and production because You know it's easy for an actor to leave and you guys are working on it for another year You're in a half But there's a lot that goes into it and there's a lot of pressure and trying to carry that and There's just there's so much pressure and yeah, you have to learn I think sometimes just I think the most the most amazing thing is just letting that camera roll You know what I mean and like picking up those moments where like an actor You know cast a fine his rhythm and and You know find his character find himself I find that with documentary work and that's advice. I would give to anybody who's starting to get into Doc stuff and doing any kind of interview is just start recording early on before the person sits down the chair hit record Because it's it's not going to take up any extra digital media I mean even if you're shooting on a red you can spare a couple minutes here and there and But because you you get these moments when that person sits down in the chair and then they start to have this Natural conversation with the interviewer and you can get something there that is what everybody is looking for out of a documentary It was just like realness and an authenticity and even those those words are thrown around so flippantly now It's once somebody knows that they're being interviewed There's kind of a for some people. There's a switch absolutely they click and then they feel like everything They need to say needs to be perfect and needs to be phrased in the right way, but it's like There's a place for that when you're doing the industrial videos the corporate videos and all you want is a 30 second sound bite, but there is an element to it when you're doing Doc stuff and you really want to know who the person is You want them to feel comfortable when you want to be able to get those moments across But I think that that plays on the director a lot to create this this world that I can be comfortable Because if you have a director and if you're not click him with them and the director doesn't know how to Finesis actors or whoever's on camera It's just it's not going to be authentic right when did you decide to stop Living under a bridge and then and then upgrade I mean you were you had an apartment so it's not totally fair to say that you were strictly living under No, I mean it was Monday through Saturday morning So yeah, yeah, it was fair to say that you were living under a bridge. Yeah, no, I was definitely hardcore living under Like hey, come on over. We'll sit in my car and talk about minimalism So you're living under a bridge and then that project ends and then you go back to Philly Yeah, I went back to Philly I would get so frustrated because I'd be on set and I would see actors that they would bring in for the show I don't like damn it. That should be me. Mm-hmm. Why am I not getting this role and then I realized Sometimes you have to step back like the the main Creator only saw me is that standing you know and a lot of times I don't know it's kind of weird you got to know when to to walk away from something like it was good money and stuff But I realized as long as I'm being there all those people we can have a great relationship and go get beers But they're just going to keep seeing me is that it's the same mentality of people who go to work in a Professional career They start out as the male room or as an intern or a PA and then everybody your boss and your co-workers Included think that you see you at that level yeah, and the best way to navigate and and rise up and to get more challenging and creative work is to Leave that company go to another company. Yeah, I have a buddy right now It's not what the job was but it's basically like the assistant for the CEO But he has so many good ideas and the kids so smart, but Everybody in the company even though he knows like he's been promised a good job after this first initial year of being an assistant They're all like just leave because That CEO doesn't take you seriously and I guess that there's a guy that he works with is like You got to know when the walk away and to just take everything that you learn from that and then move on like you said to another company Where you're valued and people don't see you in that light and that's good Ambed because a lot of times we get you know we get comfortable Yeah, we're like oh man, then well, you know, I've been here for a year and I don't want to Instead of thinking you wasted that time, don't you take that man that was an opportunity and that was a year for me to grow Now I'm really going to explode somewhere else comfort is one of the scariest things. I think it's our worst enemy because And you can relate it to so many different aspects of your life whether it's exercise and eating health We get so comfortable in the patterns and the routines that we get into Especially when it comes to creative work and and professional freelance work if you're not challenging yourself If you're not pushing yourself out of your comfort zone It's said very often, but I feel like it bears repeating as much as possible that you need to do shit that you're Uncomfortable doing and it's ironic because being comfortable you think oh this works for me But that's when you get burned out When you just keep doing the same thing over and over like even work at like we both work out and you're looking good Thanks man, I call it just got back into it. Yeah, but it's like you keep doing the same work at at one at Some point your muscles are gonna or your bodies and be like yeah, we know this you got it like switch things up and When you start getting into a fitness and and Exercising you said you grew up as a fat kid. Yeah, how's a fat kid? Okay, so 7th grade I just big crush on this girl Tony and Who I eventually ended up dating nice I did it I did it. It's all downhill since No, but we were in 7th grade and I was walking She was walking in front of me and it was like, you know the doors when you're in school It's like a wood door, but then there's like the glass that goes around like your door Whatever the classroom door, so she's walking and I'm I'm looking at I'm looking at her chest through the reflection like as she's walking towards the door I could see this good reflection the light was perfect and I'm like bingo, right? She makes a left turn and now I see my own reflection and I realize damn my chest is bigger than hers Oh shit like that's like a real moment. I sat down in my desk and I looked around I was like so conscious of myself and I'm like shit Like man, I'm always just gonna be that like oh Matt's just the friend guy like everybody else is fine to kiss And I don't even know what this shit is So yeah, it was like summer going in the to like 8th or 9th grade My parents have this Big garage and upstairs. It's like a hundred degrees you're around and I would throw on sweatshirts and hoodies and just Sit on this This exercise bike and just go to town and that whole summer all I ate was was tune in a can eggs bananas And string cheese and my yeah my kind of guilty pleasure was checks mix But I didn't eat the pretzel so I just ate everything else I feel like pretzel would be like the only thing that's the healthiest thing I haven't even but that was my guilty, but ever since then I don't know I kind of look at it like I've been getting into a lot of like meditation and yoga and not because I moved out the California But just getting your mind. I'm I'm pretty Religious slash spiritual guys. So I think you have to kind of have everything in line because if you don't have balance in your life In everything that you do You're not gonna be your best person like I used to sports right too. So I used to sports right for the flyers And I would be up in the booth and I would see these guys and There's all this candy in all this food and they would just eat this constantly and I'm like man You guys are like 40 And can barely walk up these steps. They're like 50, 60 pounds overweight and I'm like man They they they they they're only happy time was sitting in that booth and writing The rest of their life was falling apart and I realized you kind of have to have a balance on everything because if you're healthy You feel good You know then it's like you can go out and you can Your work reflects that every aspect of your life kind of reflects that so I think it's Not so much working out like for me. It's a healthy balance of diet like if I can't pronounce something in food I just I don't need it. Mm-hmm. Once you Change one aspect of your life start meditating start exercising it tends to tip the scale in a lot of other areas of your life Whenever I start going to the gym I Subsequently start eating better Just because it I feel better after a workout. I want to you know have my protein shake or have my smoothie and then it starts to to shift Different aspects of my life and then once they start eating better I'm like oh, I should start meditating a little bit and bring that into my life So sometimes all it takes is just to do what make one change in your life and then the rest will follow along Yeah, so it's a move that California a little over a year ago. My life has just been one big experiment and I think with a lot of that I've been trying to focus on gratitude a lot So like being here. This is this is so awesome like I've never I've done podcasts like recorded them but never Been on one and this is cool like I do we do this thing every morning where we're like oh, what are you? What are you praying about? What are you grateful for? What are you like worried about? Whatever and this was like my thing for today Like this is what I'm most excited about like getting on this podcast being creative sitting with a creative person that That gets all this is and I think in in our industry It's temporary fulfilling like like you did minimalism or we did design disruptors together and it's like right when it's finished at that moment You're like oh man, but then it's like what's next and that's a freelancer and as a creative We're caught in the cycle of what's next and we don't step back and appreciate things and I think a big adjustment for me Is a couple months ago. I just did this campaign for Honda and The whole time I want to set them like oh man like Am I gonna get this audition next week and like how's this gonna work? Whatever whatever and then as we're filming I like looking those is this tour bus of like I guess they were like Chinese tourists and they're all taking pictures We're shooting like downtown like we're like I'm you know Not to be confused with Ryan Reynolds And I sat back and I'm like wow like I remember when I was that guy standing there thinking man I wish that was me living in that lane doing commercials and doing this stuff and I'm like now I'm here and I don't appreciate it like how much of an asshole am I and like I sat back and I'm like man There's a guy literally making ribs exactly how I want them on set And I'm totally taking that for granted So I've been trying to live life just taking everything and stride and and just appreciating everything and quality of life is totally changed Like I'm not worried about not stressed about things and I've been booking so much more like the minute that I That I was like well, who gives a shit like I don't give a fuck anymore About like acting and killing myself and stressing that's one of everything kind of opening isn't it funny how that works? Absolutely it So bizarre and we were just talking about this before the podcast started is like I think you were talking about emails that you sent to directors or producers that you really liked and then you look back And I'm like cringe you're like oh shit. I was so eager and I was just yeah We're really trying to get something yeah, yeah, yeah, that's it not how can I learn That's really difficult to do as somebody that that's very young and and a lot of people are gonna make those mistakes And actually I've sent so many emails to people where That I've since met like there's been people that really inspired me and doing minimalism I was able to go out and interview with all these people who's blogs I read and Oracles who really helped me books who helped me to change my perspective on life and where my priorities were And then I look back and I see that I had emailed them, you know a couple years ago A couple years before the doc started and I'm like cringing on like I like I clearly was trying to get something from them Or was like hey like I would love to make a video with you and you know Innocent but still at the same time. It's like you think about these people that get so many emails and it's you know I think sometimes we We don't realize how selfish we can be when we're when we're that young but like you said that that kind of want when you You're like me me me all I want is something out of this interaction You're never gonna get what you want. No, you want that that selfish mentality usually doesn't lead to any kind of fulfillment But then once you are comfortable and happy It's a catch 22 then things start to come naturally to you and I think people see that yeah like for you and I we met through Good buddy of our Chris new heart and So Matt was doing design disruptors this this documentary. He was this project. He was working on and like last minute Chris is like he was DP and he was like hey, you know We need help on the shooting in New York that we're doing so I jumped on it and I was looking at like minimalism and all the stuff You did and I was like super intimidated. I was like oh man That's that's the shit like I got to have my a game and it was funny that How you initially see somebody no matter who it is like your mind creates this perception of who this person is and how you have to act Yeah, and it's like now you're in LA and we were just down in Venice Beach at the coffee shop chillin and it's like We know each other forever and it's like oh yeah, I don't need to like yeah Act this way or you know, I don't need anything you could just create a real relationship Yeah, and if that turns into something it does if it doesn't You know, it just only build your network that you can Yeah, I like fact that I can be like hey, I got this buddy Matt Vivelle if you if you're looking for a director if you're looking for something We we we so do this like you see somebody's avatar and then you just jump to all these conclusions Cuz you look somebody like somebody that I know who acts like this so therefore This is his personality and then you meet them in person Usually immediately wipes it out it reminds me a lot of online dating and I got a lot of tindering a lot of okay Cooper thing when I was in New York and It was you would just make all these assumptions about somebody both based upon their profile photos as well as the the kind of witty Bands are back and forth nine times out of ten you meet them in real life and you're like This is not really the person who I thought it was gonna be those were just really generous angles Yeah, the the witty banter turned out not to translate in in person so The expectations are tough Do you recycle your witty banter a hundred percent out of boy I do yeah, man. Wow. I've read the game I'm sure did you read the game? Well, it's a Neil Strauss. You don't know what the game is Neil Strauss is is amazing so he's got a book called the game I was introduced to his about like the tinder game or what no, this is before the Mostly before on the game. This is like the game like players and pick-up artists So you know the whole community of pickup artists. Oh, you never heard that Yeah, this it's an amazing book. It's really good. I was naturally born with that script of mine Yeah, yeah, exactly you were that's not really fair because you kind of have a natural Naturally, you're good with like my grand both my grandfathers were studs, so yeah My my grandma was definitely a stud like I look at photo to the hand. I'm like shit his nickname used to be Hercules and then That's pretty boss. It's hard to live up to like he worked on the railroad Yeah, that's one memory man. Yeah, it's totally different whole minds railroad everybody's in the in the military Yeah, my dad like can can fix like take a car apart put it back together And he knows how to he did the electric on our house built our house from scratch and like Man, I want to get into that and I want to start kind of trace my roof like both manual labor disappointments Yeah, yeah, we really are and I you know what there is some good in that I think but like being self-reliant is something that I aspire to achieve and in and those realms of my life But anyway the game was this Neil Strauss he wrote an amazing book and he just co-authored a book with Kevin Hart He works with a lot of really well-known Celebrities and and co-rights books with him, but he's got a couple books of his own he's got one book called emergency Where it's escaping LA in an apocalypse and really yeah It's really so you like have it just talking about that yeah, yeah, yeah, and then so he's really interesting guy So he wrote this book on the game and it was um one is part like his Basically tongue his story of being this 40 to 50 year old millage man who wasn't good with women never was good with women And hooked up with maybe a few girls never had many serious relationships and then found out about this underground society of pickup artists and starts to learn all these No, I think well Neil Strauss now lives in LA and they were all mostly about base in LA. I think oh So it was this kind of whole yeah, and it's this whole underground society as they call it it was but really it was them Men who weren't naturally good with women Learning how to talk to women. That's really the basics of it and there can be some bad stigma Singletism around it and there are certainly things aspects of it that can go wrong where like nagging women or maybe kind of I would say Misleading women would be a really bad direction that could had but in the the best case scenario of this It's just helping guys that that It's like you can't really nervous. Yeah, there's so many aspects to it. It's a loose, but it's like here Just say this line tell this story to them when you first meet them and then you're gonna open up and then you can kind of transition into other Conversation, but I forget how we got on there, but well, I feel like that's kind of like what we were talking about in all aspects not expecting something Right like I have friends that are that are like that's like oh man like I need to get laid the night And you do this what do I do? I'm like I don't I don't know like I don't I don't do that. Yeah, I'll just go and like I'll just have a normal conversation like look at this person and and talk to them like Like they're an actual human being yeah, and not just like a means to an end. Yeah, there's this there's a spectrum Because there's the guys that just get so nervous like they wouldn't even know what to say that was Start her and it's like how do we help that guy get over that fear and you got to just keep pushing yourself out there Keep doing it the being uncomfortable Yeah, being uncomfortable exactly and that's the only way you're gonna get better I actually had a lot of social anxiety when I first started Dating like after during college I didn't date that much and then once I got into the real world It was a different it was a different element of dating and then online dating was starting to blow up and I just didn't put myself out there I didn't do anything so I developed a social anxiety towards dating and getting out there and meeting girls To the point where I was like it was the most terrifying thing in the world and then I you know I set up one date through okay Cupid and I was so fucking nervous on this thing like the night before Actually, I was the morning of and I'm showering because we went out and got coffee and I remember just like shaking in the shower I was like I can't do this. I can't do this But just knowing that it's not a big deal I'm just gonna meet this person and if we don't hit it off, it's fine and then I go on the day I was really nervous It was the first time I ever had an espresso I had to show you how long it was You get some hair on my chest. Yeah, then I'm just shaking on the date even more nervous It didn't really help call my nerves and That was it and it wasn't the end of the world and the next date was a little bit easier the next date a little bit easier And then eventually I just got completely over it and it wasn't big deal anymore I got nervous as anybody would on the first date But I did help me get over it We initially got into this in terms of you asking me did I send stock Messages to every oh, yeah, and I did You have to in some ways when you're online dating because it's a number of times this line works every time Yeah, exactly and then what he's supposed to be creative with every person and then 90% of the women don't respond Bring it all the time. What is exactly? It's not just for work. Yeah, yeah, so But anyway online dating. I think it's the the best parallel to really illustrate Putting yourself out of your comfort zone not having an expectations. Yeah, just wait. Remember when that was like Or online dating Man, what is that like that's so weird. It's so gross. And now it's like Everybody does it's totally normal. Yeah, but I have buddies just to wrap this up I have buddies that that are afraid that like oh, what if she says no or whatever and I kind of look at it For like me for all dishes like I have to be so nervous to go on an audition and and I would do my lines and I would you know I would do everything I would walk out and keep repeating it like I should have done it like this I should have done it like this and then it's like just let it go You know what I mean? Whatever happens just like put it out there and let it go and it's kind of like the same with Like dating and it's like you're gonna get rejected who cares that just wasn't meant to happen at that time You know and then so it was like the things that ended up happening and things that clicked That was the right thing and you don't force it you just like let it happen. Yeah, you just have to be willing to Look like an idiot man. I get rejected all that like yeah for acting man. Yeah All the time like if you book one in ten you're a boss. Yeah, what's the absolute worst case scenario of you Being so courageous that you're willing to to go after your dreams. Yeah, it's like that to me is like Attempting that and failing and just being maybe back where you started maybe a little bit in debt Isn't as bad. I mean that that's you have to pursue that did that have an influence on you coming out here I think I I and because you were doing pretty successful in New York Yeah, and this is a big jump New York and LA two totally different ball games the biggest hurdle for me was personal and it was the Leaving my family I guess the being in Brooklyn is almost like being on another planet. No, it was kind of the same thing It's like what's a flight versus driving three hours through traffic to get home exactly so that that helped to kind of push me over But I was doing well in New York, but most of my shoots most of my corporate shoots that I was doing were Not in New York. I do a couple of years You fly in for that most of them were out of the the city and then on top of it doing minimalism and design disruptors and starting to create original content And work on original projects and documentary documentary series That open me up to be able to to work from anywhere. Yeah, and let you see how big the world is too Sure so many stores would be told yeah, and that's something that you're really passionate about is traveling and I I never I went on my first airplane when I was I think 20 years old really yeah, yeah No, I actually I did a shoot when with in Colorado and then lost Vegas I did rock the bells behind the foot at behind the scenes footage for this rock the bells concert And I ended up showing a hotel room with most staff. Oh really yeah, well, he had like the the sweet and then I had like the little I was in the closet Next door how that happened This guy that I had worked with was really good friends with him and he's the one that brought me along for this shoot He was an early mentor of mine and then He was friends with most staffs so then we end up going to Danny's together and now it's quite good. That's what it moves to find stuff Yeah, exactly. It was a wild experience and really a learning experience for me first time flying I didn't go on another I never went on a personal ship in whole Costa Rica when like three full four years ago And then simple it's amazing and since then I'm like I want to start traveling more I had when did you do the first time you went left the country? First time I went to Niagara Falls and I was like 16. It doesn't count. Yeah You could stay on the New York side I was like just water. I'm like international water. Yeah. No, the first time I went my ex-girlfriend was Japanese so on New Year's Day 2007, I think I was 20 2000 or 2006 maybe New Year's Day. I flew to Japan Spent like three weeks out there. Wow, and that was mine blowing and it's funny because I've been doing a lot of traveling in the last year and a lot of What I'm trying to get out of it stems from that trip because I didn't Appreciate it like they they paid for me to fly like first class and it's like I got super spoiled and when I got there It was like they were celebrating New Year's and her grandmother made this like huge traditional like spread of all these amazing foods and everything was fresh And I was like oh sushi Mmm, you know whatever And I didn't take advantage of it and now I'm like oh my god like her dad Now when I look back her dad was like super high up so like everything we were doing was like Stuff that people there will never even be able to do and I took it off her granite. Yeah, and I'm like man I really screwed that trip up. You got to eat this basically in the ultra wise. Yeah, getting get stuff So I was like real closed off like I was like oh wow. Yeah, they're you know whatever They worship and temples up in mountains. That's weird. Yeah, and I was such an idiot I didn't sit back and go wow look look look the beauty of this. What's the history like whoa? Why are they doing what they're doing? I think that's part of traveling though is is in the beginning You know for some people it may not click and you may not really be able to get the fully experience it and not every trip is created equal It depends what how old you are when you go, but I think the more and more you do it the more comfortable You get at it and then more you allow yourself to just relax absolutely enjoy the experience and learn from other cultures And I think it's I was just an Iceland which is incredible if you haven't been there But it was weird because like when I think of Iceland I don't really know what that thing. I you think ice although mighty don's they said. Oh, you know It's pretty new. Yeah, yeah, that's like literally how I know geography. Thank you. I was the best But with that like what the Iceland and it was like a whole other world it was green and it was flowers and it was like Seven degrees and black sand beaches and iceburgs there and glaciers on top of mountains and wild horses and sheep and the best fresh food And it's funny because when you travel It's like How do I explain it's like my perception of of Iceland was this little landmass on a map Right, but now my story of my life gets bigger because now I can talk about Iceland and it's like my whole perception it's like Now it's like this whole world that like I can't wait to get back to you know and you have your perception like I was also just in the Philippines And like I thought of Philippines is just these beautiful beaches and like Girls and this is what it was but when you get there you You see there there are people and societies that are going through the same things like that we are It's kind of like I guess how people see America like everything's perfect here But here we're like oh there's so much wrong and like it's the downfall of our country. Yeah, you know it's just like your perception of You base everything off of what you know so you've been to actually 43 or is it 43 of the 50 states or 47 All of them I haven't been the Pacific Northwest until a couple weeks ago. I'm Matt right near and I love Seattle Matt right right near beautiful it's gorgeous I haven't been to like Montana, Idaho like those upper states there in Alaska and Hawaii What was that systematic were you trying to travel to every state? I think with this country we don't appreciate I think you learn to appreciate where you're from once you travel and you see Like the pros and cons of every different country and it's like You start realizing oh like I want to live in the Philippines. It'd be so awesome to live in Australia But then you get there and you realize You know there's the same highs and lows as there are here and you appreciate things that we have here compared to there But even like what you said are states It's almost like if we were Europe we would be so many different countries I literally just went I've done the whole east coast thing you know up and down just because we were from the east coast But I did a traveling Play so I saw a lot of the south with that But I drove back and forth across the country three times last year when I moved out here I drove across totaled my car flew home drove across again with my dad and my brothers we did a road trip but we took a different You know you took a different route and then my brother moved the San Francisco so then him and I took a different route as well So just by default we were just driving through everything and then the more and more you start seeing stuff It's like well now I want to see You know what Chicago's like I want to see what Montana's like I want to see what you know New Orleans is like and You appreciate the big cities, but I think Utah might be my favorite state that I've seen just so vast the deserts and just All the colors in the sky and it's just the land beautiful Masses and you're just like wow, it's it's like a whole other world. Yeah, we filmed a part of the Minimalism in salt Lake city in the salt flats. Yeah, which was one of like I've been there. Yeah, it's It's pretty stunning and it's definitely worth checking out but we were driving out there and Driving for maybe two three four hours and we're like is should we just turn around because we have a schedule And we have stuff that we need to do we have an interview going on later that day and what I don't know if we're gonna be able to get to it Let's just keep going. Let's just keep going. Yeah, and eventually it's just like in this wide experience of White salt for fields for less far as you can see and ended up being I think one of the most beautiful Scenes of the film where Josh reads and tells the story of his mother dying and his marriage ending and how he discovered minimalism and But you had to kind of you had to just keep digging through it to be able to to find that scenery But that's why that's part of traveling too is just that Sometimes you just it actually doesn't work out Sometimes you like you're hoping to you know see a place that's really beautiful And then ends up being foggy and then the days was you know quote-unquote ruin, but you have to like It helps us to develop as storytellers Yeah, because we get out there and we put ourselves out there and you know Even if something doesn't work out the way that you want it to it's it's still an experience that you have and then when you look back on it Like me for Japan, I didn't think of an inch of it, but it made me a better traveler Because now I know what not to do right I wanted to do the cross-country thing Have you done it yet? No, and I wanted to do it moving over here to LA But then our timeline just shifted so much that Now I had to get her visa and there was only a two week window so we just had to fly and and we shipped everything We had a company ship it over, but you did the drive over here Yeah, I drove and you didn't have a apartment ready nothing. You just took the trip. No, yeah, it was funny it was last year I was going through like some personal stuff and I just I had to get out of Philly and literally in a in a two days time I sold my car. I got a new car that was a little bit more reliable I was living with my exit the time and It was like one of those weird situations where you break up, but you're still in a least together Oh man, and it's just it was brutal. So one day I'm like, what am I doing? Like I've always wanted to go to LA and I always get into relationships And then I'm staying and I stay comfortable. Like oh, I got this work in Philly. Like oh, I got this I'm like what am I doing man? Like I don't I always said I wasn't going to be that guy that grows up and like oh I should have done this this this and I was like I should have been in LA years ago So I literally just threw some suits in a car and I like just left everything in my apartment My buddy Mike and I we just got in I I had called him at like 11 at night And so what are you doing the next like we can have and he's like I don't know what he got in my mind I'm like grab a duffle bag full of shit We're driving out west. I'll fly you back and that's what we did. We just got in a car and we just started driving Blast it through Colorado and we're going through the Rockies and Mike's like hey, do you have a place to stay and I'm like no No, I don't I don't I don't have a game plan. I don't want to sleep on somebody's couch. I don't want to do that. So We got on Craigslist and We're I was like here. This is my budget look find something and he found this bachelor pad in Reena Dorei If you don't know Marina Dorei, it's it's just south of Venice gives Marina Dorei Venice Sanamonica And I needed to be by the beach. So I'm like how man perfect So we get out here the first thing we do we drive there we we pull up into the marina and This guy meets us and I'm looking at all these amazing apartments and like man This is like I'm gonna be balling like I showed her moved out the LA on the So I get there and the guy he starts walking down to the dock towards like these boats I'm like oh, I guess he's got to get the key off a boat or whatever Maybe may not maybe I got a dock to this is sick So he gets on a boat and he's like well, here she is I'm like here's here's what and he goes this is the bachelor pad And I looked up and it was like this 27-foot power boat and then my mind I'm like fuck yeah I tried to do it when I was working on power. I wanted to live in the navel yard on a boat And so guys like when you retarded this shit like freezes over like you're gonna die These boats. Yeah, so I opted for a car but yeah, so I I signed a lease and some things happened and I was like fourth of July week and I was flying a director in from this film that I was working on and I'm all I am doubt ready to go to like had these guys stay on this boat and the guy that owned the boats like Hey, he comes over and he's like you got to get off the boat. I'm like what are you talking about? He's like I just sold it you got to be out in an hour I'm like I got people flying out here in a possible investor like they were gonna stay on the boat to supposed be like a whole thing Yeah, and luckily I was looking at this other boat I was looking at the sailboat to live on this to actually buy this hillboats I did a couple of Amazon commercials that that paid out and Yeah, I just impulse by Call the guy up and like hey, I got cash I want to buy this boat so I go and take a look at this boat. I don't know anything about sailing I don't know anything about anything. I don't even it looked I don't know shit Yeah, like it on this boat and he's like hey, you want to take it out you want to do whatever and I kind of like Lifted up the cushions a little bit. I felt the sail I like not the hall and I'm like, yeah, yeah, I know she's good. She's good And he's like I I want this much and I'm like no, I got this much cash Take care of it and I I totaled my car like the day before and I got it How many times have you totaled your car? That's a long story. But I got paid out. I got paid out and So I used that money to help get a boat Wow along with the commercial stuff. So now I live on this boat. I live in this awesome sail boat And you know what it was in those moments where like I totaled my car Like I had to get kicked off the boat and it was like all this stuff where I'm like fuck like the whole world is against me and Literally a week and a half later It was the perfect scenario like if I wanted just like trusted You know, I'm isn't that you just trust what's gonna happen and stop thinking that the world is against you and working for you Yeah, and how can I make the best of a situation which I'm I not the best at what life continues to be like that There's always highs and lows and you do yeah, you keep You have good times you have bad times and then when you have good times really everything's working out This is great. I should always feel this way and then when things are really shitty and going bad You're like why is this happening? But it's it's life sucks. Yeah, it's like we can't step back for a minute and look at the big picture And I think sometimes that's what meditation can help do in the gratitude and gratitude is just to take a step back and and see How your life is progressing and how some days are good some days are bad But in the grand scheme of things if you keep level headed and and you're more self-aware You know and that's not some weird like hippie shit like I said like oh yoga meditation, but it's just the fact that You see like how blessed we are and how good that we have things because all like our society is built Especially with social media. It's all me me me You know what I mean? People look at somebody else's Instagram feed and be like oh they get the press like that's a real thing People get the press because my life isn't as cool But all we're doing is just filtering things that we want the world to say how do we make like I guess like important Content because we talk about content, but it's really yeah, we're not just trying to make shit We're not just trying to throw stuff out there against the wall and just get a bunch of attention the me me mentality How do we just kind of what you get stuck into like when I first started? I'm not gonna lie like acting seemed like awesome. Oh, man move the LA and I'll be faming bubble Yeah, it's it's all the wrong reasons that we're doing stuff Yes, but honestly things stuff you do seeing stuff new heart does I love Chris Burkhard if you guys don't follow him on on social media Incredible photographer on videographer he actually just did a doc What's it called? Under the northern lights where you legit goes to northern lights in Iceland and just serfs What yeah, you were telling me about it? It's all dark because like when we were there it was summer and it's 24 hours of light But you know the inverses don't winter. It's 24 hours of darkness. Wow these guys are just like Surfing under like the like the northern lights. What's that under the Arctic sky? Yeah, and it's just like it was beautiful And like you hear him talk like kind of like you did your tour with minimalism and you're traveling all over And you're talking and it's like you get to talk about what you created and seeing the impact that you've had on people But it was something that obviously meant something to you and it's like we're just not making shit Because I honestly pulled back a lot on my acting stuff to focus more on doc more on Meaningful content which is originally what I got into it But then you get so caught up in this world of like You think you just got to survive and you kind of go with the flow. Yeah, and you lose sight of like who you are and what you stand for It's difficult when you're when we're all tapped into it We're all on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook and From time to time no matter who you follow some of these stories end up coming through and you end up seeing people who get a lot of attention We're having really shitty content or something that's just like meant to You know get a quick laugh for his shock worthy there there is the You see them getting that kind of engagement and getting that kind of attention and there's a party that's like Ah, maybe I should just like do some shit like that Yeah, like maybe if I just did that then I get a lot of attention then I can start making meaningful stuff But I think it needs to you have to you always have to put meaningful in front of content because I'm bad with that Like it's so easy to get distracted like I've been doing social media stuff But then I've been like traveling, but then I'm like, oh man like you're getting into TV and I've been trying to develop some like Pilots for a buddy of mine and it's so easy to get overwhelmed But you spread yourself so thin that you can't deliver on promises You made and you don't put you know your best effort in one particular thing and that's something I struggle with that I've been trying to work on a lot you have to also let yourself make some mistakes let yourself have to yeah And like do sometimes I'll make some stuff that shitty that's not that meaningful But that I just was fun. I was like cool. Why not Life is a balance so when you're exercising and working out all the time You might travel and have a week where you Fall out of your workout routine. Yeah, that's the same thing with making great stuff. Yeah, is that sometimes you'll fall out of it and you'll make shitty stuff Yeah, but I think that's also like a discipline like my big thing is when I when I travel I have a lot of buddies that travel and they do like sales or whatever and You know their minds not right or their their health is kind of off and you got to create a balance Like yeah, I want to go out and you need to stay dinner every night of a client's treating you But sometimes you have to step back and be like you know Like where's where's my discipline? Where's my self-control? You know with a lot of things and that's like that You know sex that's drinking that's anything. Where's your self-control and like where do you Where do you find a balance because you know even if you're you're traveling and you can't work out When you go early morning run somewhere you could just do push-ups. You could do Whatever just watch with you. Yeah, don't eat a lot of bullshit. You drink every night. Do you know Jaco Willink? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's amazing So that that reminded me. He's got this I think he's actually coming out with a new book that's Discipline equals freedom and it's just a slide on Jaco Jaco. He's a badass. He's like a grandfather Yeah, exactly. I just went through and I listened to like his he has a podcast His first ever podcast that he'd done was with Tim Ferris. Yeah, and then he did one with Joe Rogan and also with Sam Harris and and all three I highly recommend it's probably about seven or eight hours worth of interviews there But he's super inspirational guy and I was joking with Natalie because I wake up pretty early. He's got this meant this philosophy discipline equals freedom where You have to have the discipline. It's a little bit counterintuitive But if you have the discipline to stick to a schedule to wake up early It's gonna give you more freedom because then you have the freedom to if you work out in the morning And you get all the work done. You need to by 11 12 p.m. Then you have the freedom to do what you want Yeah, and you feel productive Oh, so he's got this thing where he's like I got a wake up before the enemy Yeah, we got the 430. I think about the enemy. I think about the enemy. Yeah, with an AK 47 in one hand and a grenade I just heard but so then I told Natalie I was like I got a wake up before the enemy because she's like why you waking up at 530? I was like I got a wake up before the enemy. Am I the enemy? She said that There was like a brief pause. She was like wait a minute Hi the enemy and then I have this collage in my closet where it's just like Natalie and Emma But um, no, it's I think that's a great mentality. He talks also about extreme ownership. Yeah Just own up take responsibility for everything great leaders take responsibility They don't push blame on to people especially if they're below them. It's easy to make excuses nowadays. It's so easy Oh my god, that's all people do I think it's just making myself doing that. I do it, too And then you just have to catch yourself and realize That's the thing that's so hard is that we make a lot of excuses and we have a lot of self Limiting beliefs. Oh absolutely about wow. I can't do this because I'm this old That happened. I feel like it's like in the last like couple generations That we've been doing it because I feel like my my dad was a badass my grandfather was a badass like our answer Just totally uprooted everything that they had him He's American did all the stuff and like we moved to L.A. It's like oh my god That's so amazing I think I I tend to agree with you, but I think that's probably like we've a bias towards being nostalgic about past generations about how great they are So that might be an element in that and um, and I'm sure that they had their doubts as well Oh, yeah, but you have to I think what what do you do when you're when you're facing when you have self-doubt or self-limiting beliefs? I get it a lot because Not just our industry, but I think about like my brother Today's his birthday had birthday Andrew happy birthday Andrew he just had twins last week and he has four kids now He just turned 31 he has four kids just read it his beautiful house and I look at him like man like he is a family his kids he's a home and we're like the same age and it's like Kind of like what do I have to show for it? You know in another look at my dad and my dad did the same thing his own company like my brother's right on par with my dad and my dad's like my here My role model Frank need to And I'm like where do I measure up with that but I feel like in our generation we're trying to measure up like How do I compare to this person this person this person instead of going you know what? This is my journey like You're not living life unless you follow your own path You know what I mean you can be inspired by others, but ultimately you're the one that's writing it You know, so I think for me it's like instead of looking at something like I'm failing at something It's like well, I learned from it. You know, and I did this and I did that and it's It kind of comes back to like doing that stand-in work I first it was like bullshit and I like didn't want to admit I was standing like I did stunts a couple of times But I would always just be like oh, I just do stunts for them But then I learned so much and something that felt kind of degrading at first and like oh my god What am I doing now? It's like man if I didn't take that I wouldn't be here I wouldn't have met the people I did. I wouldn't have known New York I wouldn't you know what I mean and I think I wouldn't even be here Not I wouldn't even be sitting here if if all that stuff did it work So when I have self that I just sit back and and I I think about what am I good at? There's like the SWAT analysis that you can do you can like that up and it kind of measures your strengths and weaknesses And a lot of times I self that I can't do this this this or this and I think well what am I good at And then what have I done recently That shows that and then what can I do in the future that keep pushes that keeps pushing my my strengths But also how can I work on my weaknesses and I think when it's just being aware of it Like you were saying before like we do things but then we catch ourselves Someone's like meditation like I sit meditate for 10 minutes. I'm thinking about everything I have to do But like Tim Ferris says sometimes you get down one minute That you just don't think of anything and like that's success because you catch yourself Yeah thinking about whatever and I think it's just being aware Yeah, I think awareness and self awareness is the one of the most important things at least you can that you can do socially Yeah, because if you can be aware That if you're being a dick or if you're coming across as rude Then you can you can train yourself to pull back on it and to be a little bit nicer to people But if you're not aware of the thoughts that you're having and how you're treating other people Then and how other people are treating you and you're never gonna be able to correct that that's huge And that goes for anything even like on set like if you like for you if you're You know I I feel like a lot when you when you pick your crew there's a lot of it have to do with Like their skill or does also like their personality plan do it like how how am I gonna see myself working with this guy for several weeks or several months? Well, you think about how you you first meet crew and it's usually from a shoot from a previous Project that you worked on or you get a recommendation from somebody and the first thing that stands out is not their work Because you're not you haven't seen their work in the first thing that stands out is the personality and how Response of they are if they show up early There's so many other things that you see that are more reflective of their personality and who they are as a human Then it is about the work that they've done in the past and I think that Assessing their personality and how hard they work is more of a reflection about what they're going to do in the future Then it is then what they've done in the past so Yeah, I think you're completely right. That's the the man's mentality that I have is I want to work with people that are that are Show up early that are hardworking and then you know, you can generally have a good time with them because those these are your coworkers Even if it's for a short period of time these are the people you're gonna be spending a lot of time with So what are some of the fixer was a pretty big short film that you did that you and Chris worked on together That was pretty great. Whoa Would you rank that up as one of your favorite projects? Yeah, that was awesome It's sucked because I wanted to act in it, but I got a question I broke my legs and arms. I was all this stuff So we are are this is a separate one RIP yeah RIP car that I was living in in In New York remind me never to be in a car with you. Yeah, no, I'm good now. Are you good? No, yeah It's good one years live in an accident. Wow. You live on a boat. So yeah, good god Like I can't believe that I actually haven't changed for that. I haven't hit any while I like We're not gonna go there You're gonna get both like I navigate the marina fairly well, but I with the fixer was awesome because Like my legs are broken. I just got out of the hospital right all this stuff going on, but we already committed to this project So it was kind of like a testament for me I Like it was easy to sit back and he's like oh shit like I'm just sit here and and just worry about stuff But I wasn't like that. I was so excited about this project and I just wanted to get out there and make this so Chris and I teamed up RDP Matt Mahoney He's incredible. Yeah, he's phenomenal man. Yeah, I don't know how I got in touch with him But he's super talented dude. Yeah, so it was us three and then Sean Costello was a guy. I used to do a lot of production stuff with and he actually acted in it But we got together. We put this short. It was the road mic film fest. Yeah, and new heart brought it I think Kevin and Mahoney brought it up and we literally in like four days We set up this whole shoe we shot this short ever we get we pull these amazing shots together and it's amazing crew And we ended up getting finalists like top three in every major category in this film festival And we didn't end up winning any but we got runner up. I think in like four category five categories But it was awesome because you see some of these guys working. It's incredible But they did behind the scene thing and it's like months that they worked on this and this was a story that meant so much We literally wrote the script shot edited Did everything in four days. I love that and it was incredible because it was like everybody had to be on their a game You know, it's like You didn't have time to blame somebody else for something or go. Oh, this isn't working. We all just kind of Stepped in everybody else's shoes and just saw what what could happen and instead of being this chaos It was this beautiful wheel That never you know never came off the track. I think it's a good example of constraints and every project has Constraints whether it's budget or timing or whatever, but that's like a really extreme Constraint we have four days to create a project from scratch Haddy pull it off and it was doing yourself into something. I think we think too much like producing I didn't know what the hell producing is and I didn't know really what to do but it's like oh This has to get done. It's like common sense on a lot of things like something has to be done How do I problem solve this and do I know someone who can help and can I do this this and then how do I help somebody else? I think a big thing in just being a human being is You know where can you lend your your skills or talents In places that might necessarily not be what you're you're assigned to And I think that's how you learn yeah a lot of things. It's like oh you're dp But also, you know now you're a gaffer and you're a grip and you know now you're sitting with the director And be like hey, maybe this should be changed and it's like you start learning so much and that's gonna that's Gonna be more reliable. It's gonna be more and more important as we progress and as technology becomes a more accessible to everybody and Even today we think it's like almost as if we've arrived and now Anybody can do anything but I think it's getting easier and easier and that you know Eventually iPhones are probably gonna be able to shoot as good as these cameras that we have right here Everybody's gonna have access to it But you have to be able to really diversify how good you are at all of these different tools to bring them together But even go back to content creating what if you have an iPhone guys if you're not in this world Just go shoot something look if you have an iPhone because you're learning to be your own dp Your own director you're editing it yourself and you probably have your buddies in there or you jump in and set it on a tripod or you know Put it up against a beer bottle and you go and do your thing but you're learning how to do everything and even though you think it's some Amateur thing like in the real world Multiple people are getting paid to do each one of those roles. Yeah, and if you can do all that I mean just it's it's so much more valuable Do you listen to podcasts to get inspired or do you listen to it before you need the inspiration just to keep you going like when do they I like for you so I was kind of into the podcast game late, but with that like Tim Ferriss It's like three four hundred episodes that I could sit and listen to you know I mean like Brett McCay at all these episodes. I can listen to jacco all these episodes I can sit and listen to you get to walk into Tim Ferriss's world a Joe Rogan's world and it's like Joe Rogan sitting down Talking one on one with a buddy like we're doing right now. Yeah, we're just having a normal conversation And this is like conversations that we would just have any day. Yeah, but now it's like I can pull inspiration from these guys so I'm like wow I'm a lot like them they have insecurities and it's like what did they do to make themselves better? What are their morning rituals? Maybe it works for me. Maybe it doesn't but I got into a lot of like Meditation and a lot of journaling and I love writing but I for me as a writer But worst thing to do is to write like I get so distracted with all this other stuff and I'm like I'll write them but I should do this this this and I don't know why but it's something I love and it's so hard for me to do But once I start writing then I'm gold. I think that's what's great about podcasts and long-form conversation Is that we've gotten a little bit to sensitize to the the one minute Video clip the two minutes sound by and it's it's we want to feel like we're hearing a real conversation And how do you actually get to understand somebody the only way to do it is to talk to them? Yeah, I think that's one of the great things in podcast and real quick I remember seeing to embarrass them like two hours and 20 minutes for a podcast and then next I know it's like five minutes on four podcasts later. Yeah, you don't want to go by so quick And it's just like I've been just I've been devouring it. I've been getting heavily into podcasts and audio books And it flies by and I feel like you learned so much and it's never being in traffic is the best Time to listen to it. I do it all the time. Yeah, and it's it's never for me It's like I really want to continually learn new things and I do that with a lot of these podcasts Whether it's your learning about somebody's story or you're actually learning about the future of AI and And technology and all this stuff is really fascinating And like I'm I'm not a very good sponge when it comes to knowledge. I don't retain a lot But it's the continued pursuit of learning and always being open to new ideas and being open to Question previous beliefs and previous ideas. I think is the one of the most important things because then it's really Interesting about mankind, too. Yeah, because since the very beginning that's all we've been doing trying to learn more and trying to just build on what It's been given to us and leave something a little bit better You're right and that's why we're here, right is because of the like since we started writing down And then you have these people who take leaps forward for us and but we're continuing along in that journey It's like the people that influence the world the most or the outcasts the freaks the people that are like Do the abnormal things. I mean even if you get killed in the midst of it. It's like those are the people that we look back I'm like wow they changed history. Yeah, they weren't afraid to be uncomfortable All right, you ready for quick questions. So it all right quick questions not Quick answers unless you want to answer quick. That's really up to you, but it is the one and only segment of the ground up show Where I get to ask you questions in the view answer. It's kind of like the entire podcast, but in more condensed form So it's really hyped it up. Yeah, I did For question number one What's the simplest advice that's hard to follow? Man my own advice get comfortable being uncomfortable Like that's something that I've been really trying to push it's it's I mean, it's like anything Whether you're eating a new type of food or whether it's like a new workout or going up to a Hacker on me like oh, man, I'm like I'm gonna go make this move. It's like It's if you don't take that initial step and if you don't take that first leap you'll never do it And you'll spend the rest of your life thinking I should have I should have a should of how do you deal with criticism? I noticed that sometimes I'm dismissive with it, but I'm always listening to it Like it depends on when I get it like if I'm in the middle of something and you're giving me criticism like while we're working I guess it's kind of like everybody like yeah, yeah, okay, whatever But I'm still like taking it in but I've been getting better at it I appreciate criticism Especially on the acting front like auditioning. I never know You go in front of audition. I don't know why I didn't book it. You know what I mean? I might You know, is it my looks is it do I my shitty actor like what is it so when I can get feedback I always appreciate that and I think the thing is you got to learn like somebody won't tell you something if If it wasn't something that needed to be addressed And a lot of times it's hard like when you got to tell somebody hey Like you need to work on this or this is something I noticed and then that takes a lot from that person as well To let you know that so I think just trying to learn from that and being aware of Maybe it's something I might have to change What one skill has helped you the most in your life? I think my ability to communicate and Being willing to Just accept people who they are. Let's say somebody stuck What one thing can they do today to go on a path of becoming unstuck? Don't look at yesterday. I mean yesterday already happened and if you think about the past Only reason the past exists because We're remembering it. It's in our memory or we write it down Besides that we don't know and we think so much about the future like all what's gonna happen just be in the moment and realize that Everything that you're doing right now is gonna affect The outcome of the next moment name One thing that people should read before they go to bed tonight Oh, I've been Or listen to how about reader listen to because we go audio we can go So I've been Call it forget I've been really reading a lot. I know what you read What you're still like an artist? Yeah, I thought you read in that We can do that. I've been reading still like an artist and that's just something that shows you that There's a whole bunch of different like little things in there, but it just shows you that every single person that's creative In history has copied off of somebody else or used them as inspiration and it's like we're never gonna come up with new original ideas It's it's set of thinking oh, man, I can't do this and That well-stap dry think how can I put my own personal touch into something and then let others be inspired and keep creating If people want to connect with you online, okay, send them so Instagram at Matthew Nado M-A-T-T-H-E-W-N-A-D-U Also Matthew Nado.com You can also take a look there and My phone number is Hit me up on that. Cool. All right, man. Thank you so much for coming on the show Absolutely a pleasure brother. All right, thank you
