# A Guide to Getting Unstuck // Ground Up 066
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wN95JXN435s
Nate Green (nategreen.org) is a fitness expert & author that advocates a simple approach to well-being.

On this episode we cover...

1. Breakdown what it takes to make lasting changes in your life.

2. How a degree isn’t necessary if you have experience & connections.

3. Parato’s 80/20 principle & why focusing on the tiny hacks and tweaks will stop you from starting.

4. The Nuclear Mode. A very creative strategy he uses to restrict the time spent on his phone.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-06-27

## Transcript
 Hey everybody and welcome back to the ground-up show. I'm your host Matt Diavella and today we have a very special podcast. One of my favorite topics to cover. Habit change. Making drastic changes in your life that actually stick. And before we get to that podcast I've got an announcement on a similar threat. So I'm actually in the process of developing and producing a course. It's a three-week course on habit change. So if you have ever had trouble starting new things, building a new workout routine or developing a healthy lifestyle, if you find yourself starting, whether it be at the start of the new year, otherwise, and within a couple weeks completely quitting. I know how you feel. I've been there myself and I've learned a lot about how to make these Habit stick over the long run. So I'm packing everything I've learned and even the lessons that I've gotten on this podcast into a three-week course. And that's going to be done in about a month. So if you want to get access to this course, head over to matdeavella.com slash newsletter and I will follow up with you as soon as it's ready. The podcast today is with the brilliant Nate Green. He's a fitness expert in author that advocates a simple approach to well-being. So we break down what it takes to make lasting changes in your life. How would degree isn't necessary if you have experience and connections, Pareto's 80-20 principle, and why focusing on the tiny hacks and the tweaks will actually prevent you from starting in the first place. All right, let's get right into this podcast. I think you're going to love it. This is Nate Green. I'm interested in understanding how do people connect the dots between knowledge and action. So so many of us know what to do. We know the right diet to be eating. We know that this shit that we're putting in our mouths is not good for us, but we still can't make a change. So how do we connect those dots and how have you seen those transformations happening? This is really interesting because I've spent a lot of time, I'd say about the last six years working with a nutrition company called Precision Nutrition. And the biggest thing that we teach and it has nothing to do with health and fitness, but it's all behavioral psychology, right? So it's how do you take complex things like getting in shape? You may not think it's complex, right? It's like, oh, eat less food and work out more. But those are like complex behavioral like modifications you need to make in order to, in order to actually accomplish that goal. So we've spent a lot of time in a lot of research looking into how do people change? And so for me, in terms of like taking knowledge and transferring it into action, it is a couple of principles. And the one that pops into my mind right now is how can you shrink the change? How can you make it really easy? Like to the point where you're like, this is like too easy. Like when we work with the new client and they have a new habit and the habit is to, let's say, go to the gym three times a week. And that's just what they're going to do. They're going to go to the gym three times per week. A good coach or someone that knows behavioral change, what they'll do is they'll shrink that change, especially if it's something new to the client, right? So instead of going to the gym three times per week, we'll ask them a question. Like on a scale of one to ten, how confident are you that you can actually go to the gym three times a week. Like I think about your schedule, think about what you have going on, look at the next week, how confident are you that you can go to the gym three times a week. And if the client answers anything less than a seven or less, like one not confident, ten very confident. It's a seven or less. We shrink it. How about two days a week? Um, seven. How about one day a week? Well, I can do that. It's like fucking easy. Anyone can go to the gym one day a week. And that's the habit that we start with. And that's the only thing that we measure for a couple of weeks or a month. Are you consistently going to the gym and doing this one workout one day per week? And it seems like such a small change. But for someone who's never really worked out before, if they consistently go to the gym one day a week, that's 52 workouts in a year when they may have done zero beforehand. So the way that I look at like behavioral change and like turning knowledge into action is like, what are just the basics that I need to know about this? Uh, what's the skill set that I need to know? How do I break those skills down into smaller practices? And then how can I make it so easy that it's almost embarrassing? Like I'm like, anyone can do that. I can definitely eat one vegetable per day or whatever it is, right? And then this habit is built on one another because you get some momentum going. So that's what I try to do in my life too. If I'm trying to work on something new, like a new writing project, instead of saying, I'm going to go write a book right now. I go, okay, can I just spend an hour on an outline? I can do an hour. I don't want to do an hour. I'll do a half an hour. I'll do five minutes of something. So I'm consistently looking at things and figuring out how to make it like the smallest possible thing that is laughably stupidly easy and then just starting with that. The most challenging thing about that I think is that it goes against human intuition. Like we get so inspired in these moments, you know, and if we listen to a Tony Robbins audio tape or we get motivated by a Will Smith YouTube video about running on the treadmill. Yeah, and you're like, I just, I'm going to change my life. This is it. I feel so fired up. Everything. I'm going to change my diet. I'm going to start exercising, running, going to the gym, five, six days a week, and then you should as in last two, three days. No, absolutely. And so that's the thing that we discovered, not just, you know, with my work with this one company that does health and fitness coaching, but in everything. Like we have this big, I'm going to change everything in my life moment. And it usually lasts, especially with health and fitness, a couple of weeks. People will kill it for a couple of weeks. Every they're eating more protein and they're like, or they go vegetarian or whatever the thing is they're going to do. They go to the gym and it lasts two to three weeks and then life gets in the way. And so suddenly they wake up late and they're all day shot. And what we've found is if you take a long-term view, like this is your life, like hopefully you live to be a long time, right? You're not going to change anything overnight. And so if it's really important for you to like develop a new skill set or start a new career or get in better shape. But whatever this big life goal is that you have it makes sense to plan for it and like it's not sexy to say it, but like over the next few years, the next couple of decades, right? So it's not the fun thing to do, but it is the consistent thing to do. And then once the consistency builds up a little bit and you have more and more repetitions, like you just get your reps in. It's like a fitness analogy. Like you just gotta get your reps in. Just gotta do more and more and more. Doesn't mean like you just keep progressively adding more to it. If you can't handle it, it just means you're just doing the minimum every day. And over time, that builds up into this thing where your life is totally different than it was two years ago. And it feels like nothing much has changed, but at the same time, everything is here's where I think that strategy would be difficult for me. I feel like once a week, it's hard to keep track of that, right? And like it's so spread out that if I'm working out and then six days of rest and then I'm working out, I feel like within those six days, it's easier for me to give up on the next week. So how do you keep people on track? Yeah, this is the thing. So like all of these are principles, right? Like make the change easier, shrink the change. We got that from a book called Switch by the Heath Brothers. They wrote like a made-to-stick. Like all these stuff development books are like super popular. That's when you take the principle, but then you have to apply it to the individual. Because if I was coaching you and you told me that we would come up with a new habit. It's not, I'm not dogmatic saying Matt, I'm going to make you work out or I'm going to ask you to work out one day a week. If you're like, no, I think I can do two days or three days or four days or whatever, we'll find a thing that works for you. And then we'll just scale it every day or every week. Like I'd check in with you every week and be like, hey, like, what do you have on the docket this week? Let's look at your schedule. How confident are you? You can go to the gym three days this week. And you're like, actually, I can do five days a week because I have nothing going on this week. Like I'm in between projects or whatever. So we do five days or you're like, man, I'm traveling soon. I can't make it work. I'm like, okay, here's a hotel room workout. And let's go to the gym one day a week while you're here. So it's all individual at that point. And it's like taking your life into consideration. So that's what working with a coach really is, right? You're like, whether it's a business coach or a fitness coach whatever, you're just working with someone who, if they know what they're doing, they ask lots of questions. They get you to solve your own problems for yourself. And then commit to things that you feel completely confident that you can do as opposed to me just telling you, here's a bunch of shit to do. And it'll work for you if you do it all, which is how most people approach building a business or getting in shape. I need to eat all these kinds of foods. Go to the gym this many times per week. Get this many hours of sleep. And what a good coach does is they know all of the principles that lead to good results. And they just selectively pick the ones that work for you in your life. And then they just have this dialogue where we work on it together. It's a co-created process. It's not like top-down information coming at you. It's I have expertise, you as a client have your life and your own expertise, like you're an expert on yourself, way more than I am. And so I'm going to help you get to where you need to be by just talking with you through it. And then scaling habits and small changes depending on what you have going on. Yeah, I feel like my experience with personal trainers and it's not been very much I've only worked with one or two. I do the free sessions at the gym whenever they give you one. I'm like, I guess I'll give it a shot. I'll try it. Those are the trainers too. Yeah, it's the thing though. Because my experience with it is like, I don't see them taking behavioral change into a count. They don't ask questions about your life and how busy you are at work. And when you have free time, there's like, can we schedule a session this week? Yeah. And why would they? At that point though, right? Because like you've haven't committed to them. And they haven't committed to you. Like they can give you a workout. They're trying to like, in that situation, if you haven't made some kind of commitment, if you haven't got bought in in some way, there's no reason for either of you to take it that seriously. And so like when I work, I do some business coaching sometimes with people. And then the first thing that I work on is like, not that you've heard of the term pay to play, right? I'll tell you a quick story. When I first met Joshua and Ryan are mutual friends, the minimalist. I was living in Missulu, Montana at the time. And I didn't know either of them. And Ryan had a mentorship program. And it was like, a couple hundred dollars a session to talk to Ryan about whatever. And I didn't even have a goal. I was like, this seems like a good person to meet. And we're in the same community. And we have, you know, I think we have similar interests and principles that we share. It'd be cool to meet him. So I paid him $200 or whatever his hourly rate was to like sit across from him and have pizza and just talk about things. And it was really valuable because I made a connection with a person. But I wouldn't have had that if I didn't invest in that in some way. And that investment just happened to be money. It doesn't always have to be money. It could be time or attention or shared interest. But I feel like the same kind of thing with the trainer. If you're going into a gym and you're doing the free session, there's like no consequences whatsoever for you or for that trainer to even invest a modicum of your time and energy into the relationship. And so things only really start to happen when you commit and put your money where your mouth is. I've talked about the coaching program. It persists nutrition a little bit. But one thing that we do is you can pay monthly or we have this thing where you can just pay us all upfront, pay it all upfront. It's a full-year coaching program. And you're not going to get your money back unless you do the things that we tell you to do. Now of course, it's like you really, like if it wasn't a good fit for you, we give you your money back. But the idea is let's say you're all in at the beginning. Like you're going to trust us to help you out. And we're going to trust you to actually take this seriously and make it a part of your life. And things are going to come up that are going to be difficult. But we're going to work through them together. And we're going to co-create this new change that you want to make. And a year from now, things are going to be better than ever. That's our plan. But you only get there when you commit to something. Yeah. And I think that connects into that psychology of people in the very beginning. There's like, I'm all in. All right. Well, then put your money where you're mouth is like really take this seriously. Exactly. Exactly. And again, it doesn't have to be money. I just use that as an example. But it could be time and attention. Like I'm going to dedicate a couple hours a week to working on my, to working on this side hustle that I eventually want to turn into a business. Like that's a commitment. But it's not a commitment if it's not in your calendar and you actually don't take time to do it. Right? Yeah. So that's another thing that we, that I try to find out in my own life is like, if I want to accomplish a thing, how am I committing myself to it? Before we started recording, we were talking about the idea of small tests. And that's something that I've been trying to adopt a lot more in my life. And to the point where if I have an idea of starting a new project or work with a new client or anything like that, I ask myself, okay, what is a small test I can run to even see if this is a good thing that would be worth doing? You know what I mean? That way, for instance, I was talking to a reader of mine who reads my blog and he was asking me whether he should go to school for like personal training. He wanted to like wonder if he wanted an exercise physiology degree or if he should get a nutrition degree or whatever. And I said, before you go to school and spend however much money for however many years doing this thing that you're not even sure that you will actually enjoy, how about you just go train a friend for like a month? And just see if you like talking to this person and having to answer questions. Like what's a small test that you can do that doesn't cost a lot of time and money. You're committing to it, but you're not overly committing to it. And you can just run it and see, yeah, I think this feels like a good thing for me. I think I would like this kind of career. I would like this project. I would like to work with this person. I mean, you're kind of like dating, right? You're like doing these little small tests to see how it's going to go. And then if it goes well, then you fucking double down and you commit to it. But if it doesn't go well, it's like, oh, you didn't waste so much time or money. It's fine. Yeah, I just had a friend who did something very similar where she quit her job. She was like very successful VP working in Manhattan. And it just, I think the grind got to her a little bit. She's like, I'm not happy about this anymore. She quit her job, traveled the country for a couple of months, came back to New York and started a sandwich shop. And it wasn't like a, she didn't open up like a mom and pop actual store. She, she, she reached out to a couple places that they would do these like food markets or vendors or whatever, where you can show up kind of like a, it's called a smorgasburg, I think, awesome. And yeah, it's really, really cool. And so she applies to one of these things. And they say, yeah, great. Can you send us some photos of your food? And like, she hadn't even started. She had done nothing. So she went online and found some photos of food that she really liked. Like sandwiches. And she sent it to them. And they said, okay, great. Yeah, here's your table. And then she's like, oh, okay, I'm going to do this now. And like, she wasn't like necessarily passionate about making sandwiches. But she wanted to figure out if she could pursue this kind of like independent hustle, like creating your own product and brand and like if she would actually enjoy that. So she made these sandwiches. It was really successful. She really enjoyed it. Not sure if she's going to be, you know, making a sandwich shop. But she now knows that she's like really enjoyed that process. Super cool. And it's like, I mean, there are so many things like that that you could do that are, there's really, you're not going to fail. No, there is no failure at that point, right? You just like, like, failure to me would be like committing to something at the outset without even being sure if it's a thing that you want to commit to or if it's worth committing to. So like, if your friend went and took out $75,000 in loans in order to open up a business on like a busy corner in Brooklyn, that's very different than doing a sandwich shop at a pop-up for like, you know, a month or two or however long like the contract is or the gig is. So that's just something that I'm I encourage people to do and something that I try to do myself is if I'm going to, if I think I want to do something like, and it could be something like, I mean, I haven't skateboarded since I was like a kid and I wanted to get back into it. And so my girlfriend got me this skateboard lesson with this punk 17 year old kid. It was like teaching me how to like kick flip and stuff. It was awesome though. But that was like the small test. Like, I didn't even have like a skateboard anymore. So I just went and like borrowed his board and like did this one hour session and it was a small test. And I'm like, you know what? I like skateboarding. But I don't want to get my own board anymore. So I just like hurt my ankles all the time. So it was like that one hour was a small test before I went out and like bought knee pads and like brand new skateboard and like went and signed up for like this, you know, like an indoor like skating area or whatever. Like I could have done all of that and spent a thousand dollars and a bunch of my time and then felt like a failure afterward when I didn't go to the fucking skate park. Instead, I did a one hour class paid the 17 year old kid to teach me some stuff and realized that I had a lot of fun but I'm probably not going to do it that much more. Yeah, it's and I think that there is like a psychological effect in the long term if we keep trying things like not even not experiments, but actually like going all in. I'm going to get all this ski gear and I'm going to, you know, the jacket and everything. And then you have just these claws that's filled with all these failed ventures and like if they could just weighs on you a little bit. But if you were to just approach the way you look at it a little bit differently, then and you saw them as experiments. It's just not going to weigh on you and you can actually enjoy the process. Yeah, and you don't know what you don't know. I mean, like you may like think you really want to do a thing like some people want to be entrepreneurs and they, you know, they learn about it and they start a little side hustle and they try to make a little bit of money and they realize that they actually like working for other people. They like working as part of a team, right? Like they like when I say like employee, I don't mean that in a negative way because, I mean, I don't even know if I consider myself an entrepreneur at this point. Like I basically plug into existing teams and I just become a part of that team for a while and I help them grow the business and do things but then I can unplug. So I guess it's kind of like freelancing. But I don't know. I get to the point where like if you don't do a small test, you're just committing yourself to something that is completely unknown and then like you said, when you fail at that a year later or you just don't go skiing, even though you have all the year, you do feel like a failure, you're like, man, I'm kind of like, I just wasted a bunch of money and I'm wasting, I just feel like I'm like, I feel bad about myself. But if you've structured it as a small test, there is no feeling bad about yourself. It's like, oh no, this is just all data that didn't work or I don't like that as much as I thought I would like it, you know. You are a reform skinny kid? Yeah. Is that right? I am also a reform skinny kid. Awesome. I think we both gained what like 30 to 40 pounds in college. Is that when you gained your weight? No, I didn't go to college. I was not good at school. So it was my junior in senior year of high school, I gained 40 pounds and that like the weight room became like my like church at the time and it's all I did. Yeah, I had I had trouble on high school. I couldn't put on anyway. I was like, I was 100 pounds going into high school and then I think I left high school, maybe 115 pounds. I guess when you're supposed to be putting on a lot more weight than that, like all my friends were 150, 160 pounds. Like not muscle but still I was like, I was always the smallest kid in school and then for whatever reason at some point in college, things started to click. You know, my roommate was big into the gym so I think that helped inspire me. He gave me a lot of advice because early on, I had no idea what I was doing. I was just picking up weights. I would do one set, put weights down, pick up the next weights and just start going into my next set and he's like, dude, you're not even resting. And I was like, what's the rest? I don't know that was a thing. Yeah. But I'm really curious to learn about your journey and how how you were able to actually make that shift especially so young. I've always kind of been athletic. I started like doing martial arts like Taekwondo when I was like five years old. My parents put me in Taekwondo and I loved it. And I always played like basketball and I would do push ups and jump rope and stuff. So I was always kind of been athletic but I was really skinny. I was like, I mean, depend on what you mean by skinny. It's all contextual. So I was like a hundred and 35 pounds or so, 140 pounds, which for me was skinny. And I ended up gaining 40 pounds. I wanted to like 175 over the course of a year. And what that showed me, like I can tell you how I did it but the results, like the consequences of gaining that weight. I was at a time where I was like 16 17 years old. It wasn't very good at school. I had a couple of good close friends. But I wasn't like super popular talking to everybody, right? And what gaining that weight did and the fact that I did it to myself, it gave me this whole new sense of confidence. Like I could accomplish things. I could like take something that was non-optimal or shitty or whatever you want to say or like just, you know, not where I wanted it to be. And I could actually affect change and make something happen. And that blew my whole world open. Because that was like 17 at the time. And like in high school, I had like a one, I graduated with a 1.7 GPA. I just did not really try. And my parents still don't believe me at this point. But I never took the SATs. I didn't even know that that was the thing you had to do. A college was not even an issue for me. Like we didn't even talk about it. My parents were great parents, but they just had their own shit going on, right? But when I gained that weight, just this whole world of possibilities opened up to me and I'm like, all right, if I can do this to my body, what else can I do with my life? And that's when I started getting really into like self-development stuff and entrepreneurship and writing. But the way that I gained the weight, I mean at that point, I was like 17 and like just the hormones were going on. I was easy, but like for me, I can tell you a lot of terrible stories about how to take like shot glasses full of olive oil just to like, oh man, eight cans of chili and like three peanut butter sandwiches at like 10 p.m. Like I took it seriously, like it was a job. Like I had it's it's not popular to say, but like because most people are trying to lose weight. When you're losing weight, you need to be aware of what you're eating and you need to like have some hunger cues and I need to stop now and and for when you're trying to gain weight, you need to do the exact opposite of all that. Like I would like set a timer and like play it loud music and just like eat food as fast as possible before my hunger cues kicked in, right? And then I would feel full and then I would still eat more food. I do not necessarily recommend this, but that's just how I had to gain weight. And at 17, I didn't like I read articles online, but I didn't have like a coach or a mentor guiding me through it. So I just like hacked my weight through it. Yeah and it well I mean like you said it's not that popular because most people are trying to lose weight, but like that's such an underserved group of people. Like the especially guys, guys that are skinny that are trying to put on weight and mass and it's pretty difficult. Yes. It's pretty challenging. I mean it's like we spoke about earlier just picking up any kind of thing, but I definitely have a couple friends who are struggle with that who have for a long time though. I'm drinking all these protein shakes. I'm trying this and that and like nothing's working and it's like you got to keep, you got to eat a lot. Yeah. I'm going to eat until it hurts. Yeah it's people like and like you said it's a very small subset of people, right? And I've a it's weird of kind of like started my career especially in the early days like talking directly to those kinds of people. Like I was a program director for a few years of an online workout and nutrition program called scrawny to brawny. And we just took like thousands of guys who were incredibly intelligent really, really smart people, but they'd never they'd been trying to gain weight, but they just didn't know how. And so I have like a soft spot for helping people like that because like that's where I came from, right? I just needed some like I needed a good tribe of people. I needed some good mentors around me. And I needed someone to like tell me what to do to get in better shape. And when I went to that transition and gained 40 pounds, like it's not the same stuff that I would do today, right? Like now I feel like I'm at a better place with my body or whatever and I'm not 17 year old kid anymore. So I'm not I'm not taking shots of olive oil anymore, but at that stage of my life it's just what I had to do. And I feel like that's true with everything, right? Like you probably trying to think about this now. Like I think I hustled a lot more when I was like early on in my career, not saying that I don't hustle now and like try to do like the best work that I capable of and push myself to become better and to reach more people. But I don't like have the same like I have drive, but it's more like a discerning drive at this point. Like it's not like try to make as much money as possible. Like back then it was try to gain as much weight as possible. I feel like I'm a little bit more strategic with my thinking now. Yeah, I felt the same way too about the the weight gaining. It was like you could never be big enough. And it was it wasn't necessarily having a balanced life or a balanced style. No, no. It's interesting, like I was I was talking to a friend and mentor of mine, a guy named John Purity, and he has this like he had this like blog post that he put put up a while ago and said like in your career, the first part of it, you need to say yes to everything. Like everything is a yes. Because you have no experience and you have no connections or very limited and you need to put yourself out there and try a bunch of different things. It goes back to like our small test or small experience. And then as you get a little bit more accomplished in your career, you build a skill set, you have some experience, you're doing good work. You get to this point where maybe like half the time you say yes and half the time you say no, you have to be more discerning about it, right? And I mean, I think you get to this point eventually where you are top in your class or like you're good at your craft like you're respected for it and you have like a track record of like past accomplishments and experience that speak for themselves. And then you're in a point where you have to say no to most things and it's a really tough transition, but it's just you still have the same drive, but you have to be more discerning with the things that you take on and the things you can make yourself to. Yeah, now I have the same trajectory as well. It's I remember saying yes to every single project, every single video shoot like I did 65 year old birthday party. It's an bar mitzvah intro videos. I don't know what a bar mitzah intro video. Oh yeah, it's a thing. It's there's a I cornered the market on the East Coast. Basically it was like these kids that would right before their bar mitzvah when they would come out to be greeted by their family and friends. We would I would cut together this video of them playing basketball and like baseball and I would have fire and flames to the the videos and like just like a jazzy soundtrack on it and just like they paid good money for that shit, too. But it's like I wouldn't say yes to that now. No, but at the time I'm learning, I'm growing, I'm making money, I'm paying off my debt, like you're you're going to change in a ball of overtime and like don't ever, especially early on if you're just getting started out, there's very few things that you're too good for. Absolutely. Yeah, and it's funny that you said that because it resonates with me on when I first started becoming a writer and the health and fitness industry. I said yes to everything. I wrote for like the most obscure blogs on the planet that maybe got like three views. But what it taught me is that it I learned how to do work on a deadline. I learned that I needed to produce and I needed to set up some internal habits and some external practices. Like I had to like have things set up in a way where I could accomplish a task and make it replicable. Like I could do that over and over again. So like with your interest to bar mitzvah with flames and stuff like that, Riley, you may look back at that I'm feeling like man, I would never do that again or I would do it differently. But at the time you were doing your best work that you were capable of and you were doing it on a deadline for money, which is amazing because then you just get your reps and you just keep doing more of it and more of it and you get more discerning you get better at what you do. And then you look back at it and you're like that was a necessary stepping stone but it's not something that I would do again. But you don't knock it either because someone that's going to be an up and coming filmmaker, maybe they need to corner the market on like the the Jewish bar mitzvah opening credits or whatever intro video. Yeah, but the everyone starts somewhere and if you're still doing the same stuff like five ten years into your career as when you started like my thought on that is like unless you really love it and it's you just like for some reason you nailed it the first time you tried something and that's just what you're good at now and that's just what you want to do. I feel like if you're doing the same stuff five to ten years later and you're not doing better versions of that you may need to like look at things and go you know what am I holding myself back by just doing the same thing like there should be some kind of growth. When you look at your current life what you're doing now and you kind of trace it back to the beginning what was the first domino that kind of started I think yeah this is all right so I have a couple of answers that come to mind and I haven't thought about this in a while. The first one is I think my parents putting me into martial arts when I was five because what it did is it gave me like a daily practice like a thing and I was committed to something. I had no choice. I was five my parents could tell me to do whatever the fuck and I had to go do it right. You have no say in the matter but I think my parents putting me into martial arts when I was so young taught me like respect and discipline and how to listen and how to push myself and how to overcome challenges and how to have accomplishments like because there's a belt system right like you go from white belt to yellow belt to all the way up to black belt and you earn that. It's not just like someone gives you a certificate and says good job like you have to do things in order to have an achievement and it feels really rewarding. So I think that was a big one. The second one I was in a Barnes and Noble bookstore a couple of weeks ago and you know when you first walk into a Barnes and Noble and there's like the two doors as like the door from the outside and then there's like this little hallway and then there's a door to the inside of the store and they always put these like shit books out and like the in like the little hallway area. They're like seven dollars and ninety nine cent books about random things. I wanted to do a Barnes and Noble a couple weeks ago and in that little area I saw Steven Cubby he wrote the seven habits of highly effective people. His son wrote a book called the seven habits of highly effective teens and I hadn't thought about that book and like two decades. But I read the seven habits of highly effective teens back when I was like 11 or 12 and it changed my entire life because it just it was like a self development book for 11 year olds. Wow. Yeah and I totally forgot about I didn't know idea but then I like picked it up and flipped through it and I was like oh man there's like some good life lessons in here about how to push yourself to gain knowledge and how to say no to things that don't seem right to you. Just like all these little life lessons that like 11 and 12 years old that you may not be getting from other sources like I got it from this random book that I'm not sure how I got it. I don't think my parents gave me this book and like I think you're going to learn something from it. I may have found it like in the school library but that book I think that book helped a lot. And I think the first domino after the third domino by now but I think it was gaining that 30, 40 pounds back when I was like 16 and 17 because at that point like I didn't know what I wanted to do with my life. I didn't have any career prospects. I wrote really terrible poetry to girls I was trying to impress so that was like my extent of writing and that just triggered something in me where I was like man if I can do this what else can I do with my life because I took this body that I have and I manipulated it in a way that's really positive and it felt really really good and I want to know what that's like in other areas of my life maybe I don't have to be a fuck up you know. How did you turn it into a career minutes in the health and the writing? Yeah so I started as a fitness assistant at a local health club so I got a job making like minimum wage wiping sweat off of cardio machines and I got my personal training certification after that and I started training just random clients and at the same time I also wanted to be a writer but I didn't know what that meant and so I had read a couple of health and fitness books and one of them was written by a guy named Lou Schueler and he was the fitness director of men's health magazine at the time so this is probably like 2004 2005 I'm just out of high school and I did like a semester community college didn't know what I wanted to do got this job as a fitness assistant knew it kind of knew I wanted to do something with health and fitness because I just gained all this weight and it was cool but I didn't really know what I wanted to do with it and so I read this read this book by Lou and I like googled him and I found his website and he had like a contact form on it so I was like I'll just send Lou an email like he'll write back and my friends thought I was insane they're like this could do they wrote a book that you just read and you're in an email I'm like he's never gonna fucking talk to you and so I sent Lou an email and I basically just told my story I'm like hey I'm 18 and I'm a personal trainer and I don't know what I want to do but I think I want to be a writer um how do I get your job and yeah he wrote back to me and it was amazing and he basically told me he's like I mean he was super kind and he said well if you want to go to journalism school like I did you need to go to Columbia or pick a good journalism school and I'm like dude I graduated with a 1.7 kind of fucking way I'm getting like Columbia Journalism school and he's like if you want to you know go into health and fitness maybe get like an exercise physiology degree and I'm like yes not gonna happen either but there's a one line in the email that he may have written as an afterthought but he said but at some point it doesn't matter what you do because your experience and your connections will speak for themselves and I was like a light bulb went off and I was like oh shit so it doesn't matter eventually my experience and my connections will be like the things that I need to like open new doors I should just go find ways to get experience and connections so that's when I was like okay I'm gonna get my personal training certification and I'm gonna just start training clients like even like I know I'm not gonna hurt them but I may not know the best stuff to do it either I'm just gonna like work on on the fly I'm just gonna like learn as I go and the same thing with writing I'm just gonna start writing a blog so I started a blog and I'm like if I can just write every day I'll hopefully I'll get better at writing and then maybe I can do some magazine stuff and I just started doing that kind of stuff every day training clients writing articles for myself that no one else would read and then making connections with people I took out a $1200 loan to fly to a conference or seminar and Washington DC that was put on by this like body building magazine that I read and respected and I met people there that fast tracked my career because I was like this young up and coming trainer guy and I was super ambitious and excited and when they told me to do something I would go and do it and then I report back to them with what happened so I just found a way to get experience and connections without having to go the traditional way of going through school there wasn't a master plan to it I just did what felt right and like used the limitations to my advantage like I couldn't go to school so if I can't go to college if it's not really a thing I can do how can I go and get the experience and connections another way currently is a lot of your work does a come through online like does your business mostly run online or is it mostly in person mostly online does yeah so I'm curious about that I'm it's funny because like I just years ago you remember seeing like make a living online but now it's just so everybody knows it's pretty synonymous it's pretty easy and it's not sleazy at all how was it changed over the years and like what was the difference of trying to make the living online say when you started maybe 2008 to 10 versus today yeah that's a good question like I'm we're finally at a point where my parents actually understand what I do for a living now right thanks like like the first like few years they're like I have no idea how you made money are you sure like this is safe and legal and everything right um right because like our parents were like don't put your name on the internet yeah exactly right yeah you didn't email don't open it could be a virus right so I mean I started my career training people in person right so I had a personal training studio for a while and so I did that for a good five or six years so that was and at the same time I was starting the online stuff so I started right for some magazines I had my blog and I think the transition really happened um I think it was like 2007 2008 when I was doing online coaching for the first time that was a weird new thing where instead of training people in person I could write their programs and talk to them on I think Skype existed back then I could talk to them on Skype or on the phone and I could use PayPal and pay me money so I was charging like a couple hundred dollars a month to talk to these guys on the phone a couple times a month and write up their training programs and coach them through it and I have like ten or fifteen clients pay me two hundred dollars a month and I suddenly I lived in rural Montana suddenly at living right um the first product I ever put out was it's funny to think about this now but it was an interview product like I'd went and talked it was called standing on the shoulders of giants and it was an information product like it's like everyone you know at this point knows what an e-book is or whatever um but it was it was like it was literally CDs of me talking to health and fitness experts talking about how to be successful in the health and fitness industry and I sold it for like fifty bucks and now like you know podcasts and stuff for free that you can sell an interview product but back in 2006 2007 you totally could so just early on I learned oh I can create things of value and sell them to people and feel really good about it because I'm adding value to their life and the price makes sense so that was all very new back then to me online coaching writing articles for magazines or blogs and then creating products now most of what I do for income generation it's all online but it's still consulting right so it's online but I still meet people in person I go to Toronto to work with a precision nutrition team in person and have meetings but I think the way it's changed online now is I think everything is easier and harder at the same time I feel like it's easier because you have like if you want to start an online business or just a business you don't have to call it an online business anymore you just have a business doesn't matter you used to say I have an online business right and it was an as legitimate as like if you had an actual yeah no absolutely so like I had an online business but I think what happened for me is I have this realization that I could create value for people and then charge money for it and that's still what I do now right it's just gotten better so it's starting a business is both easier and harder because it's you can be up and running in like three hours if you have like a stripe account or a PayPal account to get paid you can use something like strikingly or square space or something to have a website that looks good and it looks good on mobile like you can basically get to the point where you have a business within a couple of hours if you have something of value to to sell to people right but it's that's the easy part I mean back when I first started I had to get like a merchant bank account like to even accept online payments at the time because it was so weird like people were like how do you make money it's all comes through the internet I don't trust that we're gonna hold your money and not deposit it into your bank account until it actually clears from all these random people that are paying you um so that's the easy part now but the hard part is that there's so much noise there's so much everyone wants to be like a lifestyle entrepreneur blogger for our workweek kind of thing and I feel like it's a lot harder to kind of break in if you're not being original and if you're not if you're not consistent with it like it's I don't know if I would be able to do what I do now if I just started right now like I think I'd figure it out but I don't think you it would when I started my blog in 2006 I was like one of the first fitness slash lifestyle blogs on the internet at the time at least written by like a young guy right and that kind of legacy content like the fact that that happened like 11 years ago or 12 years ago now um I find like I think it was easier back then to break in because there was a lot less noise yeah I think I think you're completely right there was you know being an early doctor is one of the biggest advantages to building an audience because it's a less reliant on quality and you can you're going to get better you know as you continue to produce eventually you're going to get better but your audience is also growing the trouble today is if you're producing not good quality content if you're making shit you're not going to get any followers you're only going to get him once you start to make good but I think the what you said was like being original and consistent I think those are like the two most important things and you kind of approach it in an original way uh you have a different spin on it like minimalism you know there's times of minimalism blocks that there's so many people talking about it what can you bring to the table to that conversation that's different you know and it's it's usually going to be based a little bit around your personality because everybody's individual personality is what separates him I was talking to a comedian yesterday we're talking about stealing jokes so like he's like you're never going to steal a joke if you're speaking from your own personal experience yes like somebody can take your stories that happen to you I mean certainly I guess they could but like it'd be very easy to call somebody out on that you're like that came from my life um the thing I think you do very well is how you present yourself online like you go to your site it's very well thought out like the photos are beautiful but then it's like it's just easy to understand what you do and the value that's provided there thank you what advice would you give to people who are like you know that's such an important thing how to present yourself online yeah so I think one of the best compliments that I like the compliment that means the most to me now is when I meet some of my readers for the first time and I have like a coffee with them or I just talked to them for a little bit and they say man you're like you're like talking with you is exactly what it's like to get your emails like you just you're the same person and I feel like that's really important to me so like my advice I mean it's tough to give advice right but like what I do a couple of things I always write how I speak so this is like the way I'm talking right now is the way I try to write an email not obviously I edit the email all right it's not a stream of consciousness but I feel like I want to have a conversation with people like I don't want to necessarily be seen as an expert like I don't want to be seen as an expert like I know all of the things and I will teach you all of the things that I know because I don't fucking know all of the things I don't know most I don't know I know a little small amount of things that I feel like I'm pretty good at um I want to be like the way that I treat my website and my and like the way that I have had a right to my audience is like I want to be the helpful person kind of maybe older brother type or friend that like we've been friends for a long time and I've figured out some shit that's worked really well in my life and I want to tell you about it and see how like see if it could help you out too and maybe you can teach me some things at the same time so it's a conversation so that's the way that I approach my newsletter my blog is very much like a friend that maybe we see each other a couple of times a year oh we talk on the phone once a month or so but it's like let's skip the small talk and get straight to like the good stuff like let's talk about life like I don't want to talk about the weather whatever um that's the first thing that I do and the second thing and this hasn't really been a conscious decision but I can see that like when everyone else in my when I see the industry going a certain kind of way I try to go the opposite direction I'll give you a very clear example it's very specific but affiliate marketing used to be a big thing and it still is so basically if you have a product that you sell online you get affiliates other people that will promote your product and exchange for a commission right so if I have a workout program myself and you are my affiliate and the workout programs a hundred dollars maybe I give you twenty five or fifty dollars for every person that comes through your audience that buys my thing right so I like back in 2011 I played with that for a while because that's what everyone else was doing and it was brand new to me I didn't know I didn't know any better at that point and what happened though is pretty quickly you get sorry for the term but you get pretty quickly into the circle jerk okay I'm just like he's that way okay just just like people they're like if you do my thing I'll do your thing and if you do your thing you'll do my thing right and it just becomes this like it's it's not genuine and you people started promoting products that they'd never tested and people were expecting more time on the marketing of things and they were on the creation of the actual thing they were selling and I just saw this change happen around that time where a lot of people in my specific industry so like the fitness and nutrition lifestyle industry primarily online started doing more and more affiliate promotions and they would put way more emphasis on that than on the quality of the thing they were selling and it just didn't sit right with me and so I just fucking stopped doing it and I actively went the other direction where I'm not gonna do any affiliate stuff like I just want to talk to my audience and try to bring new people in and if I like once you connect with someone in my field like I don't have to have like a transactional relationship with them in terms of like money to be their friend like if I like Matt stuff I'm just gonna tell my audience about Matt stuff with no expectation that it's gonna come back to me in any way because I think I love my audience and they trust me and I want to tell them about stuff that makes my life better right I think that the scale is still tipped in that direction and where so many sponsored posts see it all the time and I'm like it's sometimes hard a hashtag ad and it's like people do it so much if you're 50% of your posts are sponsored or there's always something that you're selling you're always asking your audience for something then I feel like that's a problem it is a problem because the the trust kind of degrades over time right and I think it's always good I just said something I remember writing a blog post back in like 2012 and it was called something like five foods I'll never eat again and one of them was bread that's fucking stupid but at that time I was like carbohydrates are terrible and you should need bread and so I wrote this post and it was ridiculous to write a post like that but at the time like it seemed like a good thing so I just said like I'll never do affiliate marketing I will say that I'm always open to changing my mind but only if it makes sense and only if it feels good so like some of the podcasts like I listen to Sam Harris's podcast I listen to the minimalist podcasts and these podcasts don't have sponsors they're self-supporting right maybe they have a Patreon page or they have like listener supported whatever I really value those podcasts because I feel like I'm always getting their best and they're not like chilling for underwear or whatever right yeah and mattress yeah and and and I'm gonna say there's nothing wrong with that but I still feel like there's something wrong with that I don't know like it doesn't fit my personality and what I want to accomplish but I'm also open to the idea that maybe a product or a service comes along that just makes the most sense for me in my life and I think my audience would love it too and maybe maybe then I'm open to the idea of it but right now I can't see that happening right like I definitely see there are certain digital products that I use that help me a lot with my business that I love to use and like the experience with them has been amazing so for me when I think about I'm like well what would be if I'm gonna mention that anyway like what would be wrong about starting the podcast and having be sponsored by them you know I don't it's it's a challenging thing to to enter because I kind of want my podcast to feel like it's well these are just conversations and like imagine if you're sitting down with a friend for coffee and you're like before you do it before we you know get into our talk let me tell you about this mattress that I call conversation sponsored by Casper right like it doesn't it feels a little bit off and that's just it's kind of polluted our culture and advertising is everywhere absolutely I get it I think it's like when people are spending so much time on creating content and they that's what they are like they're all like every day they're content creators they're putting amazing quality stuff they it takes extra effort to be able to monetize that in a way that makes sense to them and that would be just as lucrative or at least lucrative enough to make a living and support their business then it would be to just throw up a couple of 60 second ads this is yeah this is one thing that like I haven't I only have talked about this a lot in any of my blog posts or anything but like I get asked a lot like from people that want to start a business on you know online or whatever they want to do they want to create fitness products or they want to they have an idea for a like a bag they want to create or like a certain kind of like physical good and my advice to them is always kind of the same and it's one start with a small test like just see if you actually want to do the thing but it's also like find a way to charge a high dollar amount for a service to start with I'm really I feel really grateful that I was able to start my career as a personal trainer because I got to get a lot of repetitions and getting paid to learn by helping these people get in shape and learn what worked and what didn't and the fact that I was able to do that in person with people and then eventually online talking to them on the phone and writing their programs that helped like any workout program or the thing that I sell now that like is not a direct connection with me which I don't do that often has been influenced by my like the services that I offered early in my career I didn't just go straight to the product and then try to sell the thing and so I feel like people that are just starting out if there's a way to develop a service out of the thing that you think you want to sell I always recommend starting with that because it's easier to do consulting or coaching or to teach someone something for a higher dollar amount than it is to like create an information product for a hundred bucks and try to sell it to no one yeah which is based upon an audience it's like those are the things that come in time yeah and I think it was either I think it was Tim Ferris podcast or author that said something like I think for his podcast he waited I'm gonna have the number fucked up but he I think he waited until he had like a hundred thousand downloads of his podcast before he actually started like advertising yeah I actually I was listening to a podcast or he mentioned that advice and I was he said wait until you get a hundred thousand downloads and I was like great I've got over a hundred thousand downloads and then he said per episode and I was like oh all right I got a little bit of time ago before yeah well and even even that though right like it's all they're good baselines and it means you could do it at ten thousand downloads for whatever whatever right it's it's probably unique to the audience but I think there's a good like base measures to put in there like like how can you just get really good at what you do there's another guy remit setty yeah he's great okay yeah so my my partner Richelle used to work for growth lab which is a company that he runs and she was a product developer there's super super smart person and so anyway so like she knew remit and I got to have coffee with remit a couple weeks ago and what I love about what he does is he is so into the customer research aspect of things that everything that they create at growth lab is fully tested on real people over the course of a long time and so they're never just putting out stuff to put out something to try to make money off of it like if it's gonna be out there on the market it's something that was tried and tested a long time beforehand right and so I just love that approach to things and so the thing that I got from from remit and other people that I respect that I consider friends in this kind of industry now is like how can you just do high quality work I mean remit told me that he I think you're able to blog post about this but like he was on stage at a speaking event early in his career and there was he gave this talk and he loved he said oh I can make money like speaking in front of people on stage I should I should do that and so he asked another person who had had a lot more experience who was like super famous in that industry is like hey how do I get more speaking engagements and the guy said hey go do interesting shit first right you have to have something to talk about you have to go do interesting things in your life and help people and add value before you can ever ask someone for money to like stand up in front of them to talk to them about things yeah I actually I think about that when I look back over the past you know 15 years of being a filmmaker the past 10 to 15 years I just think I now when I talk about it I have so many things that I can I can bring up so many learning lessons that I've had and if I tried to two years in try to do what I'm doing now it wouldn't be successful and I wouldn't have anything to talk about because I have no experience yes like you got it you got to you know get your hands dirty yeah you gotta go do things before you can write about things or sell things you know what I mean or else you're just faking it and like there's an element of faking until you make it but I think that it's gonna be way more challenging it's so much it comes more naturally when it actually happen but I think fake it to you make it is good in the sense that like if you don't feel confident or you feel like you're kind of an imposter like I had like imposter syndrome when I was for starting out right I'm like I'm like I'm like I was like 22 and I have this book come out and like who the I didn't go to college who the fuck am I to like write a workout book and uh this friend of mine um John Barardi said he's like what do you need to know more than you need to know more than the people that you're trying to help so as long as you know more than 19 year old dudes who need to gain weight you can help them like you you're not an imposter you know and so I feel like the fake it to you make it is good when it's like I don't really feel confident myself but it's not good if you're just faking your life like yeah I'm fake it to you make it like I was just not really know how to do this shit but I'll say that I do right like you're not trying to fly a plane yeah cool man let's do uh I got some questions uh from Instagram I reached out and Craig just crazy response do you do uh Instagram or no I didn't see you on there no so yeah we talked about this earlier right before we started recording like I have to have a good reason to do things and because I work online um I want to minimize the amount of time that I'm on a device because like I do my work on a laptop or on a my desktop and so I don't like we can get into this little delay uh after your questions if you want to but uh I'm really weird with my phone like my girlfriend knows my password to my phone but I don't like I can I can you do that on purpose yes yeah no yeah we find a time yeah we've learned we've learned to to say this that it's like totally consensual and like I actually ask for this to happen it's not like a weird power dynamic but like yeah so we we told people this and they get like they think that we're terrible people and like have a horrible relationship oh my no she will yeah yeah no if you want to let me on my phone but like I know how to get into my phone to like do shit but she knows the restrictions like you go into restrictions on an iPhone and you can like put in a passcode to like turn on the internet or turn off certain apps or whatever I don't know that password because the reason is I call it nuclear mode so like I want to be in a position where I make one decision that by virtue of making that one decision makes a bunch of decisions down the line that I don't have to use willpower so on my phone I don't have email social media anything like that I use my phone for text uh calling Google Maps Spotify few other apps that I that I use and that's it um so she knows my password so I don't have Instagram because I had it for a little while and literally all I would do like it night was just like scroll and look through things so for some people like I have a friend that has a lot of followers and he loves it because he's a trainer up in West Hollywood and he has like 15 minute breaks between clients he's like I'm not gonna do anything productive in those 15 minutes so I get to like connect with people on Instagram and like follow my friends and post something cool and valuable so for him I think it makes a lot of sense but for me like I don't have a good fucking reason to do it I it would just detract from my life because I would compare myself to other people who are like more successful than me and then I would like post a thing and be like how many likes did I get yeah do you you you call that the nuclear option yeah a nuclear mode on the nuclear mode that's so good I yeah because I've done a couple of videos on on that in just ways in which we can restrict our phone use and I haven't even thought of that option where if you have a partner to have because there's certain things that we like about it there's even a phone I think it's called light phone and I had talked to the the founder I'm trying to schedule some time to get him on the podcast but it's like it's a beautifully designed like small rectangular phone that it syncs up with this phone and that but like you don't have to bring it with you but basically it's that's cell phone service so you can do calls and text but it's super basic that way you can just leave this at home and then if you need to get a hold of people you can still do it from this additional phone yeah that's super yeah it's pretty cool so I'm not a lot right like I love technology in the fact that I can like it's enabled me to make a living I just know my own limitations and I know that I can get a little obsessive about things so I just try to actively put myself in situations where I'm not gonna like fuck up and so for me that means like like when I went to New York recently I had a brushell like put the internet back on my phone and my email right because I was like oh like if I'm gonna meet with these editors for these magazines or whatever I need to be able to like like see when they emailed me because I don't have their phone numbers and I swear I'm like I was like in my hotel room at like one AM like refreshing my email and reading articles that no one needs to read dude we're we're in the end or thoughts yeah like we have no control no so nuclear mode is I just like yeah I just I can't do it like if it's not on my phone I can't do it so like what am I gonna do it night I'm gonna sleep on read a book yeah I do the same thing I mean these folks they're they're the apps are designed yeah support you in and it's it's we're not strong enough now I have to do something like yeah alright so let's get to the questions I didn't want to get a few questions here um this is uh a lot of a lot of a one health and wellness uh somebody said how do I lose the last layer of fat I've been struggling with it for nearly a decade hmm so questions like this are always interesting right because like um okay so without knowing anything about this person I will say that there is no like magic thing that you do to lose the last layer of fat it's all like habits that you put into your life like months and years beforehand but I will also say that there's like when I get a question like this and I get it quite a bit um I have to know a little bit more about the person because sometimes people need to lose that last little bit of fat because they're like pro body builders or figure competitors and they like or actresses and they need to like look amazing for a very specific amount of time and so in that case then you do little things that you would never recommend to someone do for like health reasons right like uh I did this experiment a few years ago where I don't recommend it to anybody but I gained 20 pounds in 28 days lost it all in seven days and then gained it all back in 24 hours and the I- she's this is the one that you was on 10 parishes yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah two part thing on on Tim's blog about this um it was a full-time job man but in the goal was like we were uh I worked with a couple of people that trained uh mixed martial artists right like a nutritionist a genre area that trains uh like George St. Pierre and all these like big name MMA fighters and then I worked with the trainer um Martin Rooney who trains a lot of these guys and we just thought it'd be kind of a fun experiment right like what would happen uh like a lot of people don't understand uh about like mixed martial arts is and and wrestling is that people need to lose uh weight fast because what happens is if if you and I weigh 170 pounds and we're gonna fight in the 150 pound weight class though so even though we weigh 170 we're gonna fight in the 150 and the way that we do that is we strategically manipulate our body weight leading up to the weigh in the night before the fight and so we get down to 150 in like a week by using water manipulation so just like dehydration techniques and sitting in a sauna like really unhealthy shit but you get down to 150 you weigh in and then you have 24 hours to get back up to 170 it's insane that's gotta do some it's damage yeah yes but for short periods of time it's like your body can handle it but it's not like even we were on the article for ten sites like do not do this and it's it's tough because like people want to do it anyway yeah and and it's tough but but but we were interested in seeing like is it possible to to do this and if it is how much like how much damage just it does how much damage does it do to like your physical body meaning like are you still like after you lost 20 pounds then gained it back in 24 hours or you still as strong as you were before Henry still as powerful like it matters to MMA fighters so anyway I say that because the question like how do I lose the last layer of fat is like it depends on what you're trying to do because the thing that I would have you do if you were like an actor and you needed to like get in shape for like a you know a script reading or whatever where you're gonna go and do an audition and you need to look a certain way will be totally different than the person who needs to or wants to be in shape like the rest of their life here's what I recommend for this person for anyone that needs to lose like the last layer of fat or whatever it needs to be is look at your life and like take a journal you just get like a moleskin notebook or a note card or use the note app on your phone and just for the next couple of days just kind of like do like a time diary just what are you doing throughout the day like when you eating meals what kind of things you're eating when you go into sleep and what you'll find is after you do that for a couple of days you can look back at the data you've collected on your own life and you will find little things that you can manipulate and change that will like maybe every morning you make yourself like a smoothie and you put a lot of fruit and protein powder and almond milk and all this stuff in it right and maybe do that every morning you think it's healthy and I generally say it is but maybe you're putting in like way more fruit than you need and way more yogurt and stuff and you could like cut 200 calories out of that one shake and if you were to do that one little thing that may be enough to get you where you need to be so but what I'm not doing here is just saying you should do XYZ right if that's the expert talking down to the people and what I would try to do is like co-create with that person how can that person collect data on their own life and then if they needed a coach someone that knew what they were doing to look over it and give suggestions and modifications that's when that's important yeah because it's so specific I mean there could be so many different ways to solve that yeah maybe this person has like hormonal imbalances right like like to the point where like they're just storing more fat because of something right here's a question my question for Nate is how do you balance physical exercise it's stress to avoid overtraining in injuries and I think that's interesting because like part of your story was like being would you say you were formed fitness guy and recovering fitness junkie right and like that's the real thing it's like when you get into it you just are obsessed about every little gram of food that you eat and measuring everything so I think that probably plays a little bit of a role in the overtraining and overdoing it absolutely I feel like well so I reached a point where like I'm I'm still kind of agnostic to whether or not this is true like I'm I wonder if like people need a period of kind of being crazy to accomplish a task right like I'm assuming when you get first got into like making films like you were maybe a little obsessive about it maybe it's all you thought about maybe it's all you did maybe you were like studying other people's films like you were just so into it right and you can still kind of be that way now but you may have also backed off a little bit so for me and my health in fitness I was like drinking shots of olive oil and eating three peanut butter and jelly sandwiches for I went to bed like I don't do that in my life now but I had to go to this point where like I was really into it I dove deep into it and I learned a lot and then through that process I learned what's important and what's not important so the first thing that I would look at in terms of like training but then like the stress of everyday life is the the best way I've heard it put and I don't remember where I heard this but imagine a bathtub and imagine instead of one faucet coming in the bathtub there's like six faucets around the bathtub right so there's multiple places where the water's coming in and let's say that is all like the bathtub represents you and then the water coming in is stress right you need to keep it at a certain level where it's a good balance um when some part of your life becomes more stressful and there's more water coming out of it you need to go down and like turn down the other faucets in your life to make sure that not not as much water is still coming out of them so meaning like if you are working on a project and you have a relationship with your partner that is in a rough spot um maybe one of the worst things to do with that point is to throw yourself into the gym because you have so many other stress is going on in your life that you need to take control of the things that you have control over which is how often you work out and what you do maybe instead of going to the gym four days a week in crushing weight training and strength training maybe you do a couple days of yoga and one day of strength training like these are the things that you have control over that if everything else in your life or other things in your life are really stressing you out you have control over how much work you do to your body because like what people don't understand but the person that asks this question seems to is that you actually aren't building muscle or losing fat or doing amazing stuff to your body while you're working out you're breaking your muscles down like when you're lifting weights you're making micro tears in your muscles and they need to get built back up so if you're always crushing yourself in the gym with cardio with strength training and you don't have that proper recovery time where you're getting enough sleep where you're eating enough food where you aren't stressed out all the time you're not going to get in better shape right like you're not going to gain muscle you're not going to do the things that you think you're doing in the gym that stuff only happens when you take enough proper rest and recovery time but if the rest of your life is stressful to the point where you can't have that rest and recovery time you need to scale back what you're doing in the gym and it doesn't always have to be like that like hopefully things will become less stressful at work or with your relationship or whatever it's going to be right yeah no I think that's right it's it's really about asking the right questions and setting your priorities because and it's it's a constant balancing act like you said like you have to consistently be taking a look at where you're spending your time and where you're stressed yeah let me check out another question here from Instagram oh this is a good one so creatine and way protein I would love to know a little bit more about the risks benefits and when and how to take them these are two this is me speaking now that was Alberto but yeah because I've used both in the past currently don't use any but yeah I especially with the creatine one because like there's a lot of sugar that that goes along with absorbing the body yeah yeah your body like produces creatine to yeah or like creatine's found like meat and things like that too right so it's not like this crazy supplement that no one's ever heard of so me personally I don't really take that many supplements right now like I take like a fish oil and maybe a multivitamin that's about it but creatine and weight protein are great uh creatine I'm pretty sure is the most studied sports supplement of all time like there's so many studies showing how beneficial it is not just like physically but mentally like I don't understand the science behind it I'm not gonna play like I do but for like brain function it's supposed to be really really helpful and supportive too I think even for like memory and everything um so with creatine specifically creatine monohydrate find the highest quality you can get a cost you twenty dollars for a small container of it it's powder or it's tasteless just like a white powder um when I take it I don't there's like a loading phase where you can like load up and do like 20 grams of the course of five days and you go to maintenance mode and all that stuff I would just treat it like a daily supplement and I would just maybe cycle on and off of it where I would do like a month or two uh taking creatine every day and then take a couple of weeks off but it's like it's like the most benign uh in terms of like I'm not worried about the adverse health effects whatsoever of creatine but the benefits are there too. The one problem that I found is that there are I mean because there's so many supplements and I think I've done the ones that are just strictly creatine and I haven't felt like I mean I've noticed an improvement in my workouts but I haven't noticed a negative and I haven't noticed a negative impact but then there's also like the the big jugs that are sugary and like yeah I've heard that like I maybe I I missed read some info online but like you need to be taking it with what is it called like that's not not glucose or whatever like where you need to be taking it with tons of extra sugars you need like three grams of sugar with you thing and then it's like I feel like shit when I take those I'm like shaking yeah no I uh and what I used to do is I like mix it in grape juice right because I do the same thing I take the flavorless powder and put it in grape juice um I feel like everyone watching this probably knows like the 80 20 year rule or perados principle right so that's like 20% of the things that you focus on we'll lead to 80% of the results I feel like when you're getting to the point of like exactly how many milligrams of a certain thing and how many like what you need to pair it with exactly I feel like at that point we're just splitting hairs because people will not do a thing that they know is good for them because they are not they're not doing it perfectly if you were just to take like I don't even think you need creatine but if you wanted to take creatine which I think is a good supplement um and I've taken at various times of my like training career if you wanted to take it just don't do anything fancy just take a teaspoon put it in water stirred up in the morning and slam it you're good like that's like the most of like health and fitness is a really interesting area because people that there are so many different ways to hack this and like and hack that that people focus on like the minutia of the shit while at the same time like they're worried about their creatine but they're sleeping five hours a night or they're worried about what supplement to take or like what specific should I do like a ketogenic diet or should I do this while they're like slamming four cups of coffee and have a terrible relationship with their wife and you know what I mean it's like get your priorities straight like not not saying this person is another priority still but this is very common so many people are just focused on like what is the one little thing like what piece of advice and I'm like you don't need that you don't you just need to like focus on the basics and just do them well it consistently and that'll lead to way more like better results than worrying about like what sleep supplement or sports supplement should I take right this might this might be very similar answer but I think it's important to ask let me see what's this person's name Lyon his name is Lyon and that's his actual name it's pretty amazing Lyon's stark yes I don't that can't be a name you may that should have is the Lyon's stark from Berlin he's a photographer his question here I think it kind of cues to the balance and a little bit of like cheating and where can we kind of bend the rules that we set for ourselves in terms of our diet but he said my question is is it okay to drink soft drinks once or twice a week if you want to become slimmer I only drink water at the moment but I really want to drink something sweet sometimes thanks for can he drink some soda everyone's in what absolutely here's the thing with this man uh because I'm in the health and fitness field uh what happens is sometimes I'll meet up with people for a meal right or I'm at a conference and then uh people at the conference we all get together and we'll sit down and have a meal together and everyone was always always says like oh meeting with Nate can't eat the bread can't do the whatever meanwhile I'm having like an amazing IPA and a burger yeah and I basically this is your life and you're gonna die right so I don't think the reason I say that it's like for me it's like a mantra I put myself I say to myself because I'm like I'm gonna die not that I need to go chase pleasure but like I don't need to make my life so like if I really want something sweet to drink I'm not gonna just ban it forever like I think that's a terrible way to live um so I'm going to do like this is the 80 20 thing like most of the time I'm gonna eat high quality food I'm gonna get enough sleep I'm gonna move my body a couple times a week and do some strength training and some flexibility and some cardio stuff and I'm just gonna focus on doing those things consistently and if I'm gonna have if we're gonna open a bottle of wine tonight I'm gonna have a couple glasses of wine and if uh if lion wants a Pepsi every now and then and he's drinking mostly water I see no problem with having a Pepsi every now and then I'm definitely not one of those dogmatic like coaches or trainers that's like you should never do this because it's bullshit it's just it's setting people up to fail because as soon as you tell someone not to do a thing what do they want to do they want to do that thing so if we're taking a look at like a health and fitness plan or anything it's like okay what what I would we talked about nuclear mode with my phone right so maybe one thing is like keep the soft drinks out of the house that way you're not tempted to drink them um so like the first with the first rule uh is like go through your house and anything that's like terrible for you or that you don't want to drink all the time or drink or eat all the times get it out of the house and then make it like a thing you look forward to like I have a Pepsi when I'm out with my friends if the movies are whatever like it's it becomes a reward at that point and it becomes like a thing that you're not trying to keep yourself from doing uh it just becomes the thing that's like a little bit less important than other things in your life that's great advice and that's a good point to go to a couple final questions these are just like questions that I ask on most podcast episodes and then we will end the podcast so if you could go back to say high school that age or maybe when you're just starting out with with the blog and the online business what would you do differently looking back you know here's what I would say this is this is a weird way of answering this but if I could go back to like right after high school where I was just starting to like make a little bit of money doing personal training I wouldn't change anything about my career trajectory that's a tough word to say career path yeah thanks I wouldn't change anything about that but what I would do is I go back to like 21 year old me and be like hey mother fucker how about you put some money away and like a Roth IRA for a bit because you're now starting to make some money like if I like I grew up pretty poor and I was like the one person in my circle of friends that like had made it whatever that meant like I was 22 and making like a good living I had a book in bookstores and all my friends like I was just like the in my small Montana town I was like the baller I would just take everyone out to dinner I would just do that and I wasn't making like amazing amounts of money but for someone like when all my friends were working at like FedEx kinkos making $10 an hour like I made way more than they did so I just embraced that lifestyle and I'd buy a new Audi I can new car and I would do this and if I could just go back to myself and but hey put 20% of your gross income into a Roth IRA and don't touch it that would have like I think these are I mean things are good now but I would I would be way better off than if I would have been doing that for the last 10 years do it if you just take for the first five years of your working career say if you're making like 40,000 or whatever if you take $5,000 if you have 5,000 to spare and you put that in a Roth IRA and let that just for five years and then stop I don't know I should have done the math but like you will likely have millions or hundreds of thousands of dollars by the time that you retire like it's crazy how compound interest will grow and like how I've got to a point now where I've been investing I mean probably for around that period of time maybe about six years ever since I paid off all my student loans I have been just investing relentlessly every year I try to I try to max out if I can my my Roth and then 401k and if I stop now I'm still good I actually don't need to contribute anymore and I'd still have enough money to turn consider like if you know everything considering what your lifestyle is going to be like and all that right and then you know you get a average 10% return or whatever but that is so comforting to know like it's it's it's everything it's safety it's security it just makes and it allows you to take more risks and like I will say and the one thing that you said to is I'm I think I I think I still would have taken out the loans I took out because like I took out like not a lot like maybe 30 grand worth of loans to like start my own personal and training studio after I transitioned from the health club into my own space I think that was a necessary growing pain because I like learned a lot about starting a business and having overhead and running a facility and all that but yeah if I could go back to like me out of high school it would be pay off your debt really quickly don't buy a bunch of stupid shit you don't need to impress people that you don't like and put 20% of your gross income into a Roth IRA that's the thing done that's that's it right there shit man I really wish I started it's hard though and I understand people are in debt and stuff and like there there may be a circumstance where if you're graduating with a hundred thousand dollars and student loans yeah you gotta pay that the best thing would be to just pay that on that that is killer advice we might have answered this one already but like what one piece of advice have you gotten in the past that continues to stick with you to this day without getting too deep into like you had Dan Harris in your podcast while I go and so without getting too deep into like meditation and Buddhism I'm not a Buddhist but like I've been reading a lot more books about meditation and mindfulness and everything and I think it's not necessarily one specific piece of advice but it's a thing that I've been practicing that I've gotten from multiple people like I've read multiple books and talked to them meditation workshops and silent retreats and stuff like that and I think the one thing that like if I can just continue to remember the fact that one I'm going to die and that it just puts everything in perspective for me like if I'm really worried about doing a thing thinking about the fact that I'm gonna die I don't know what happens after death probably nothing in my view like everything else seems a way less consequential like like and at the same time more like if I'm nervous to get on stage and speak in front of people if I'm nervous to take on this new business venture if I'm nervous to have this conversation with my partner about something difficult remembering that I'm going to die just infuses that moment with this kind of clarity where I'm like this both matters and it doesn't matter at the same time so I can just like stop taking myself so seriously and I can just like not I don't have to suffer unnecessarily and last question yep how should people connect with you online where can they go to find out more about Nate Green apparently I don't have an Instagram no Instagram no Twitter do you have a Twitter yeah it's a Twitter slash the Nate Green which is like the most cocky thing ever because there's multiple Nate Green that's one of the one I got um really though I read a newsletter I call it weekly ish so like yeah once a week ish sometimes I go a couple of weeks without writing something but they go to Nate Green dot ORG they can sign up for my email list and if you sign up and you like it hang out and read more of it and if you send me an email I'll usually respond to it eventually and if you don't like it then you don't subscribe and that's fine too awesome thanks for being part of the show me yeah thank you so much man thanks and that's the podcast hope you enjoyed this one again if you want to hear about this new course that I'm making if you want to get notified when it goes live head over to matdevella.com slash newsletter and sign up for my email list you'll actually also get a access to a 20 minute film that I made about my personal story of getting unstuck so you'll get that and I will also notify you when this course goes live and about a month or so thanks so much for listening
