# Ground Up 033 - The Important Things w/ The Minimalists
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WNAy8DAaHsY
http://www.groundupshow.com

Hey everybody it's The Minimalists! You've seen them in our documentary Minimalism on Netflix as well as on their blog where they write to over 20 million people. They're good friends and conspirators and on this episode of The Ground Up show we discuss their journey. How did they become The Minimalists? What were some of their early mistakes as entrepreneurs? What are the inner workings of their business? And we reminisces about our documentary.

See The Minimalists live on tour:  http://www.lessisnow.com & as always find them at http://www.theminimalists.com.
**Keywords:** the minimalists, minimalism, a documentary about the important things, minimalism documentary, the minimalists documentary, documentary, joshua fields millburn, ryan nicodemus, matt davella, ground up, the ground up show, a podcast, podcast, 
**Date:** 2017-11-15

## Transcript
 I, in a weird way, ended up sitting in the passenger seat of my own life, because I had said yes all these other things, like all of a sudden I wasn't in control anymore. Like someone else was driving. You get all these accolades and you win these president's club awards and they send you off on trips to Hawaii or London or wherever and they give you these promotions and you start climbing this corporate ladder and you get to this point where it gets scary to look down so you just keep climbing up. My two very close friends, Joshua Fields Milburne and Ryan Nicodemis, better known as the Minimilists on the podcast today, nearly four years ago I got an email from Josh. The subject line was simply idea. He wanted to make a documentary about something he was passionate about. My answer was pretty simple as well. Hell, yes. We set off around the country, interviewing with dozens of people who called themselves Minimilists. Today we reflect on the film, how they made the leap from their corporate careers to becoming the Minimilists full-time and we discussed their early struggles as entrepreneurs. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matt Diivella and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary Minimilism and I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. So as you guys know, in this podcast, I talk with guests about their stories, their ground up stories, how they built something from nothing, how they turn their lives around and it's kind of interesting because we made a documentary together called Minimilism and that's like our ground up show basically, it's your story of starting with nothing and going the suit and tie corporate guy nine to five route and then becoming the Minimilists. So we can just transition to the 79 minutes of audio from the documentary. Yeah, I'm just going to cut out Sam Harris and Dan Harris and then we'll just have nothing that you guys in it. I got to tell you, man, I'm still upset that you named this podcast, the ground up show as opposed to the initial accidental title that you had when you first email me, I think I do in this podcast and you're just looking to see some of our best practices or whatever and you said, because everybody, because the world needs another podcast. I'm like, that's the perfect title that is a good podcast one and I mean, someone's listening to this now. They're already like it's gone. I got to get that domain name. Yeah, I know, right? I think it's a funny idea and I've been using it as a tagline in some of my videos, but I'm just not sure if I want to commit to that as like forever, you know what I mean? Because when you build something, you kind of have to stick to that name. Not necessarily. It's podcast was Joe buttons podcast and it used to be called, I'll name this podcast later. And I think it was like the first 120 episodes. It was called, I'll name this podcast later. Now that's just the Joe button podcast, but I said he did reach the change. He eventually changed it, but I love the first name. I'll name this podcast later was perfect or because the world needs another podcast was was perfect. So welcome to everyone to episode number one of the world needs another podcast. That's it. This is the kind of mentoring that I need right now. So I don't want to like cover everything that we talked about in the documentary and everything that you guys have covered already though there's going to be a lot of overlap. But I do want to talk about entrepreneurship, like how you guys started the minimalist and how you were able to turn that into something you do full time, which is pretty incredible in which is I think what a lot of people would love to be able to do. It's not like the only route, the only recipe that it's a kind of create your own audience and building your own business, but it's certainly one that I think is attractive to a lot of people. So I do want to cover that, but before we get into it, can you guys as like a business as the minimalist.com, how do you guys split up your duties and what do you do on a day-to-day basis? I guess both the macro and the micro. Yeah, everything is 50, 50 to some extent, but when you look at the sort of the division of responsibilities, but that might mean some things, like I was just talking to backs my partner yesterday, and we just announced this Australian tour, and so we're headed to four cities in Australia and New Zealand, and she's like, I said, I got to stop, I got to stop the car, and we need to, I need to like respond to some emails, there was some issues with ticket links or whatever, and because I manage our relationship with our booking agent, and then Ryan will manage other relationships. So I think the plan for us is quite often, we work together at least ostensibly or public facing, but a lot of the background of stuff is like, oh, you take this, I'll take this. Or Sean takes it, or Jess will take it, or we'll have you do stuff, we'll be able to hold team of people who we kind of utilize and delegate and kind of split responsibilities. But I mean, if you look at Sean Harding, who, I mean, he's kind of, he was our first official employee, you look at his job title, and it depends on which day you look at it. I mean, one day he could be our tour manager and another day he could be our director of operations. The next day he's our book editor, the day after that he's our website editor. It's just good to have a team of people who are very versatile and can do a lot of things, and then we just kind of, yeah, throw stuff each other's way and pick up stuff, and yeah, there's no specific title or duties that I could list off. Right. And I think what you touched on is there's a difference between work that you do with others, like the collaborating, coming up with ideas, deciding on whether to do a documentary or start a podcast versus sitting down, doing the writing, doing the work, mentoring, and there's a lot of stuff that, you know, it's difficult to do as two people. Yeah. I mean, the writing thing is, is a good example of that. We've written a lot of stuff together, but it's usually, we're not like in the same room together when we do it. Like Ryan will come up with an idea, and I will try to shape that into something, or I will write something and say, hey, what are your thoughts on this? Or we'll have a discussion about a topic, and that will manifest in a writing six months, eight months later, because that idea often needs sort of like a gestation period. And so writing is something that is often a very solo act that it requires solitude, it requires, for me it requires early mornings, it requires a willingness to sit down and put in the work, because for me, writing is really difficult, and it always cracks me up with someone comes, I've got this great idea for an essay, I want you to write, I'm like, you just asked for 12 hours of my time basically, and so it takes me a long time to do something like that, but it's also the thing that I enjoy most once I get it going. Ryan and I over the years have accidentally sort of piled on these things, it's not actual accident, but we didn't plan it this way. We've done it very intentionally, we've decided to say yes to certain things, but it started off as a website where we were just writing stuff, and then eventually it was like, hey, write a book, because people have asking, like, hey, when are you going to come out with your book? Ryan, you're like, well, we're the minimalist, so let's put out a book, and we've done three books together now, and after that we started touring, that became another thing that we started focusing on, or we started focusing on doing the podcast a couple of years ago. And that was just when the documentary was coming out, it has to be a great way to start talking about the documentary, it gets people excited about it, but also answers to people's questions, and then it turned into this whole other thing, and we're over 100 episodes now of basically answering people's questions, we do live podcasts in front of crowds, and that was something we didn't expect at the very beginning. I, in fact, I didn't even like podcasts at the very beginning, but then I started to fall in love with them a few years ago, and realize like, oh, I'm not very good at this, but maybe I could, I'm a fairly competent writer, but when we first started podcasting, compared to where we are now, it's a day and night difference. I'm sure you've seen this, you, and yours is an extra layer, because you interview people, we don't really interview people because, well, it's terrifying for me to think about sitting down, and you get to that point, remember, we were going out interviewing people for the documentary, and quite often, like, we'd sit down with someone, well, I patch it grown, I think we sat down for five and a half hours, right? And like six minutes makes it to the, yeah, yeah, I want to say three hours, and I heard his stomach grumbling through my headphones, I was like, maybe we should get Patrick some food. And so I think you can do that for a documentary, you can sit there for five hours, and you know you're going to get 30 great seconds out of that, and it makes for a really compelling documentary, because they don't see the hundreds, if not thousands of hours, of mostly sunrise sunset complications, that hit the cutting room floor, and with a podcast, you can't really do that, you're not going to sit here with us for five hours, and then put out a 30 second video on whatever the platform would be. It doesn't make as much sense, so you actually have to be, you have to have compelling enough questions, but also you have to be able to anticipate where the other person is going, and how do you make that interesting, considering the audience, and all these other things, and so Ryan and I have a good dynamic, and by the way, I think it's part of the reason that our show is different from a lot of others, is we haven't really done interviews up to this point, but we listen a lot, we listen to what the audience is saying, we get to interact with them, whether it's live, or it is like just they call in, and they leave us a voice mail. We both kind of started our podcast in a very similar way, and that we didn't think it through, we didn't say, all right, 20 episodes in, this is probably what it's going to look like. You didn't have a game plan, it was like, hey, this is like a new medium to get our message across, let's just start. It's not a game plan, maybe it's not having an expectation. No expectations. Yeah, yeah, so I think you can plan a little bit, but there's two ways that you could go, you could just overplan to the point where you just make so many excuses that you never started. They're like, well, I need to record 10 episodes first. That way, you have a little bit of leeway, and I can build into it, and I don't have to feel stressed out, and that's great advice if you're actually going to follow through with it. For me, it was, I just need to make one episode, talk about my story about like the dumbest thing I ever did as a filmmaker, the biggest mistake I ever had, which was quite simply just not pressing record on a reality TV show that I shot, and I was like, I think somebody might be able to like get a little bit of, uh, get some advice from this, and actually learn from the mistakes that I've made, and I'm like, maybe I can continue along with this and hear from other people, and it just evolved slowly, but I'm really glad that I just, I didn't, that I just started, and it didn't wait until everything was perfect. The time was perfect. Yeah, I'm glad we did that too. I mean, you know, when Josh and I started to talk about doing a podcast, that's all it was. Hey, let's start doing a podcast. Let's make sure that we set our standards really, really high. Let's make sure that we have, you know, good equipment, and that we have, you know, Sean there to help record it and to produce it, and let's put out the best podcast that we can, but there was no expectation on how many downloads or where we would be by episode 10 or 20. I mean, we had the same approach where it was, yeah, just one episode out of time. So I guess like entrepreneurial tip number one is, uh, have lower your expectations, but raise your standards, because what that means is if you're putting out your best work, then someone will will enjoy it. Uh, it doesn't mean that, you know, you're going to have a million followers on that first podcast, but if you can put out good work and consistently, so tip number two is be consistent, and you can be consistent with that high quality of work. Like that is where, uh, more people will come, and they will come back, because they know what to expect. They know it's a good quality, uh, show, and I mean, that's, that's kind of been Josh and I for everything, not just the podcast, but I mean, even with the minimalist.com, 52 people showed up that first month, 52. And, you know, Josh and I were pretty excited. Like great, like 52 people came to our website, um, we got an email or two, and it was great to be able to add value to other people's lives, and then 52 turned into 500, 500 turned into 5000, and now, you know, we're able to tell our story to millions of people every year, but it was what that same approach of, you know, our expectations were very low, but our standards were super high. So let's, let's go back to some of those very early days, and I want to even start before you, you started the minimalist, and, you know, you're at that lonely lunch table, senior year high school, trying to figure out what you want to do with your life, decide to go down this, this corporate path, and set your your eyes on making your first $50,000. You know, was the corporate path, the only path that you guys saw at that point in your life, and I'm also curious what success looked like for you as young, fresh, green, 18-year-old. But for me, like, I grew up with my dad owning his own business, painting and hanging wallpaper, and he got by, but it was just, he was just barely getting by, and I remember when I graduated, and I worked, I worked for him during high school during the summers, but when I graduated, like my plan was to work for him, and then eventually take over the business, but then I started to realize, like, 18-19 years old, like, wait a minute, like, I'm putting in, like, 40, 50 hours a week, and hardly getting by myself. I don't want to take this business over, and your dad was always having money problems. Always, while he owned the business. I remember when he was paying his taxes, he wrote a letter to put in his taxes. He's like, hey, I'm sorry that my taxes are short. I had to feed my family, and, like, just send in a short check. Holy cow. I know, man. And it's, the government never got back to me either. Like, I don't know if they let it slide or what, but that's amazing that he wrote them a letter. He wrote them a letter. He wrote them a letter. He wrote them a letter. Don't pay. Yeah, he was like, he's like, here's what I here's what I have. Like, sorry, I had to feed my family. But, you know, when, when I graduated high school college wasn't an option, being raised as one of Jova's witnesses, they do not encourage college. The end of the world is going to be here. So why would you go to college? Um, that's a good point. Think about how, how dangerous that mindset is. Growing up as a kid, you were basically told like, I don't worry about it. Go in the debt. Forget about college. Because, you know, we're all going to see the end of the world within the next 10 years. I mean, there's a lot of, I mean, this is totally an aside, but there are a lot of cases like in the late 80s, or maybe early 80s, I wouldn't. We'll just say the 80s. Yeah, where? And it was the middle. That organization specifically had this huge wave of bankruptcies in their organization, because that's exactly the, I mean, they want to look out loans more than what they could afford thinking that, well, I'm not going to have to pay back this loan. I'll just, you know, go ahead and do this and Jesus will come and save everything and fix everything. But anyway, so, so college was not an option. I certainly couldn't afford it. I never say it for it. I had no idea. Um, I had no idea how, how to even approach going to college. I remember like when I, when I actually did go to college, I started when I was 25 years old, and I was talking to my boss, and uh, this was in the corporate world, because the corporation paid for 100% of it. So I was like, well, I'm not as well as go to school. So I'm going to pay for it. Now, what's my boss and I'm like, hey, can you help me figure out how to go to college? And the look on her face was like, she's like, did no one ever sit you down? Like, when you graduated high school and show you, like, how do you apply? I'm like, no, like, I got out of high school. I started working for my dad and realized, you know, two years into it, this sucks. Uh, I remember telling my dad, I'm like, dad, you work this much. Some days he come in and he's, he's got this stress dot above his, it's like right between his eyes. And if you see that dot, you just don't talk to him, because he's so stressed to help. Like, block your red skin kind of thing. Yeah, and it's only this one spot. It's really weird right between his eyes. But, but my point is that I remember like seeing that dot one day and I'm like, dad, you make X amount of dollars and you work X amount of hours a week. This doesn't make sense to me. Like, just got to be something else out there that we can do or that I can do. And, you know, eventually, I'll talk to my Josh about what he was doing. And I remember him telling me, he was, he's like, I'm selling cell phones. I'm like, sweet. I'm like, how much money do you make cell phones? He's like, I don't know. I think this, this month, I made like 6,500 bucks, 7,000 bucks. This is back in 2001. And he was in Ohio. Yeah. And he was, and he's, you know, 20 years old, 21. And I'm like, I thought he was lying. I'm like, dude, no way. I blew it off for months and months. Maybe even a year. So I just remember, I was in Josh's wedding and we got to, you know, we were talking more and more about, um, me doing something different. I hated what I was doing at the time. And finally, I was like, all right, dude, I'll try it out. And yeah, like, that first month, I made like, actually, that's not true. Remember the first couple months? It was like the slow, yeah, slow, you were thinking about firing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, the entire company is slow. Yeah, it was just, it was just a really weird time. But that first commission check I got, um, it was a couple months later. And it was like, 4500 bucks. And the first thing I did is I went and bought a new truck. I was like, sweet. Man, I could have, I can afford a down payment. Yeah, to get any other payment. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But, uh, no, it was, it was an interesting, uh, it was an interesting, uh, start to, to a new career. I mean, I was really excited and, you know, for all 10 to purposes, man, I loved it for the first, you know, a couple of few years. But, you know, it gets, it wears on you after a while. What was the question again? I, I, I tried to drop out of high school. And, um, that's right. Uh, my, my, the counselor, you know, the, the high school counselor, you basically go to him and talk to him about why you want to drop out. And part of the reason was like, all the friends in my, my neighborhood had already dropped out, um, at least most of them. And it was my senior year. And I was just like, so done. And I wanted, I knew I wanted to do something in business. But, but I also knew that that I, I wasn't going to college route. And I'm like, this high school thing is, it doesn't make any sense. I'm, I was already like 17 at the time. And I wanted to just move on. And he, he got to the point where he, he wouldn't let me drop out of high school. Um, but I got, he was able to convince me that basically he could stack my whole schedule with a bunch of study halls. And I take two or three classes to graduate. And he let me take off the entire second semester of, of my senior year of high school. Because otherwise he knew I was done. But I knew I wasn't going to go to college. And so I went out and got full time job sales job. And that's when I started climbing the corporate ladder. And it was weird. I just said, yes, this thing because of, of money that was the primary driver. We all need to make money. And I said, well, here's the best opportunity to make money. But I didn't really know what I was going to do with the money. I thought I was so unhappy growing up because we didn't have any money. Really poor food stamps, government assistance. And money would obviously solve all of my problems. If I could just have enough money, then, then I would be happy. And then of course, by age 19, I was making more money than I ever saw my parents make when I was growing up. You know, my dad wasn't around. It was just my mom raising me. And so, I had that for the first time. It's not like I was making great money. I was more broke than I was a year prior because I had these credit cards that showed up in the mail. And then I sort of renting out a nicer apartment. And realized, like, I was saying, yes, to everything that looked appetizing to my life. Right? It was, it was appealing at the time. And so I, in a weird way, ended up sitting in the passenger seat of my own life, where, because I had said, yes, all these other things. Like, all of a sudden, I wasn't in control anymore. Like, someone else was driving. It was the credit cards, the job that I started where I was working 80 hours a week. And I was really good at it, too. And that was another problem. You get all these accolades. And you win these President's Club Awards. And they send you off on trips to Hawaii or London or wherever. And, and they give you these promotions. And you start climbing this corporate ladder. And you get to this point where it gets scary to look down. So you just keep climbing up. And I was the youngest director of my company's history by age 27, 140 year old telecom company. And I got really close to the guys I aspire to be like, I had a whole plan in place. I was going to be a Vice President by age 32, which is really young now. I was going to be a Senior Vice President by age 35. I see level executive by age 40. Like, that was my plan as I was climbing. But it all started that when I was 18 and decided I'm going to go this path. It wasn't a deliberate path. It was just a, I'll say yes to this, I guess. And I think that's okay, especially when you're young, to say yes to a bunch of things early on, but keep questioning those things. And that's where I I ran a stray. I wasn't questioning it. Well, this is the power supposed to take. I've already gotten this far. And so I'll keep climbing. And but as I got closer to those guys, I really aspire to be like, I really want to be the CFO one day or COO is what I really wanted to be. But as I got closer to some of these guys, they were miserable, heart attacks and third divorces and huge money problems, even though they were making seven figures, some of them, or really close to it. And then I realized that, well, if I follow that same path, I'm going to end up in the same place. So I think we all tell ourselves, like, well, I'll be different. But why? If you follow the same recipe, you're going to bake the same cake as someone else. And so that's kind of where we're, where I ended up in this place of, not true discontent, but a place of dissatisfaction and it lacked anything meaningful to me. And so, of course, I tried to pacify myself with pleasure, basically. It sounds like minimalism came at the perfect time for you because given the choice at 18 years old, where it's like, hey, do you want all this money or do you want minimalism? Like, I don't think you would have chosen minimalism at that point in your life. But you'd gone through a lot of experience and you saw for yourself what worked and what didn't work. Was it that you knew that you were discontent or was it minimalism that helped pull you out of that and realize that this wasn't for you? Well, there's nothing wrong with money, first off. Like, I think money can be great. It allows you to accomplish a lot if you use it deliberately. The problem that I had throughout my 20s is you, I grew up poor and I thought the reason we were discontent is we didn't have money. The reason we were actually discontent is we made repeated bad decisions with the little money that we did have and I just carried those decisions forward into my 20s. Had I made good decisions with that money, there was a point in my career. I was made a couple hundred thousand dollars a year and date no higher, which we're out in Los Angeles now. I don't can't even imagine what that would be. Like, here you, it's, you know, orders of magnitude different. But, but the point being is if I would have made better decisions with that money, then I think I still could have let a meaningful life, you, you can be a rich person and live a meaningful life. You can be a poor person and live a meaningful life. I've seen both sides of the spectrum. Minimalism showed up at the time for me where I felt like I got into those two car crashes. You know, my, my marriage ended, my mother died both in the same month and, and, and, and, you know, it's feels like you get just teaboned at a light and then someone else rams into you right after that. But then there was almost like this after the accident, someone ran over my foot because I realized like, no, I wasn't very contented with with what I was doing for my corporate career and it's not that I hated it, but it was comfortable. It was a, a six out of ten and that was actually part of the problem is like, it got in the way of everything meaningful in my life, my health, my relationships, I wasn't writing like I wanted to write it. I wasn't creating how I wanted to create. I certainly wasn't contributing in a meaningful way, but I was making a good income. I had a nice house. I had several lexaces and I realized like, is it lexas or lexas? Yeah, it's a good question. I don't know, Sean's not here to look it up for it. But, and so you get, you get to this point where you are comfortable and you're afraid to lose that comfort and Minimalism was a way for me to realize that that comfort was a bit of a facade, and comfort was getting in the way of what I considered to be meaningful. About your transition out of the the corporate world, what was that decision like for you? I think back to when I started as a freelancer and it sounds similar to you guys, where you say you had 50 followers come to your site, 50 people come to your site to read what you had to say. I had a hundred dollar project every once in a while, every two weeks. It's not enough, right? 50 people is likely not enough. If you're trying to spread your message and make a sustainable love thing. Yeah, to make it to, to, to, to have people to support you. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. So again, we never had a number in our heads on like how many people. I mean, in fact, if you were to ask me not like, so what's the number to have a sustainable audience that can support you on a consistent basis? Like I wouldn't even be able to tell you. Yeah, and it's probably different for everyone because some people with a 50, if you're a really well-known artist, and you have 50 really good buyers, you might be a multi-millionaire. Yeah, or if Kevin Kelly says, you know, 1,000 true fans or whatever, I think Ryan early on, you and I, we weren't, it wasn't a business, though. Like it literally legitimately wasn't a business like we had a domain, but we didn't have, you know, the LLC or any hopes to have like a team of people that we work with, and that's why Ryan earlier, he's talking about Sean, like, is our employee? Like, we don't think of people when that was terms, like we're all on the same team, right? And, and, and I think that early on, it was just like, wow, this is pretty cool. Some people are getting something from this, and then we learn, like, hey, maybe we can make some money? Yeah, well, we didn't, I mean, we didn't charge for anything on our website for the first year that we had it. I mean, it was just us putting up our essays, and it wasn't until, yeah, people kept asking, when you're going to come out with your book, and I'm like, well, yeah, that makes sense. And Josh is like, yeah, we're the minimalist. We should write a book on on minimalism. So, I mean, that was really the first thing we charged for. That book we wrote in, I think it came out December 2011, is that correct? The best sales month that it ever had, it was December 2012, 13, 13, sorry, so it was two years later. Yeah. And so, you know, just to the point of, like, there is no, there is no magic recipe, I guess. How do you approach risk? Because it seems to me that that's a huge risk. You have these jobs where you're comfortable, you make a lot of money, and both of the transition question, yeah, yeah. So how do you deal with that risk? When I sat Josh down and asked him why the hell are you so happy? And he told me about this thing called minimalism, and introduced me to an entire community of people who were minimalist. What I saw was some very common sense, things. Like, oh, if I don't have a six figure mortgage hanging over my head, if I don't buy a new car every couple years, if I stop racking up all this credit card debt, maybe I won't have to work 60, 70, sometimes 80 hours a week. So for me, minimalism, the why behind it was, you know, why did I want to become a minimalist? When I asked myself that question, how might my life be better with less? Like, the one thing that really stood out to me was my time. I could, I could reclaim some of my time. So minimalism, I wasn't like diving into it to be this, you know, uh, I'm going to live in a box from, I'm going to be a free game, and I'm going to go live in a box and, uh, live with as little money as possible. I mean, it wasn't about doing it for the sake of, look at me, look how, you know, altristic I am, like here, here I am, giving up everything. It was more about, hey, look, here is what I have on my plate now, and if I could find a way to give this up, then I can reclaim some of my time and maybe start on a better path. So it took me about, let's say about a year, year and a half of, of paying off debt, um, of budgeting, eating ramen noodles and peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, which really what show what is on something different back then. So the healthiest diet, but it was cheap, um, better than carrot juice. Guys, I'm pretty sure that this is going to be a big fat now. The carrot juice is going to take over. Yeah. So, so, you know, we didn't just quit our jobs and start a blog. That's the worst advice anyone can give you. Um, it was a very slow transition. In fact, I got laid off. It wasn't even like I didn't really have the choice to be like, okay, now I have all my ducks in a row. Um, I'm going to go ahead and quit now. I'm actually grateful I got laid off because I don't know if I ever would have got to that point where I would have actually walked away. I mean, probably would have, but it would have been much later than when I got laid off in September 2012. Is that right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It sounds like it's about calculated risk. So, everybody should take risks and you're going to have to take risks in life if you're going to do anything worth doing. Yeah. Absolutely. I don't think as I think wrong with risk as long as you're making like you said a calculated risk. So, when I got laid off, thank God that I had been going down this minimalist path because at that point, I did have six months worth of bills saved up. I had paid off a lot of my debt. I get rid of my car payment. Um, I had prepared because it eventually the plan was to quit. You moved out of your big house and rented it out to someone because you couldn't sell it. Exactly. So, it's so when when I got laid off, yeah, I mean, it I guess that wasn't really taken a risk because I got laid off. Risk is kind of risk is what you can stomach though, right? It's like everybody has a different threshold of what they can stomach. I will tell you though that like the month before I got laid off, I went to my boss and I because I had got to a point where I felt like, okay, if I got laid, if I lost my job tomorrow, I can survive for at least the next six months and try and figure out some things to do. So, I went to my boss the month before I got laid off and I asked and I asked him, hey, man, if I ever decide to leave, who would you fill my role with? Who would you replace me with? And we were talking and eventually he's like, you know what, man? He's like, this this program is working really well. I don't know if I would replace you. And I'm like, huh, it's really interesting. Thought isn't it? And then a month later, you know, I get the text of, hey, Ryan, meet me in this conference room where we've laid off dozens of people before. So, I mean, you know, when I got the text on who it was coming, but yeah, I mean, they basically hire, you know, hired me to build a program in the company. I did that. It was it was running well. They didn't need my role anymore. But I would not have had that conversation with him. If I didn't already, if I hadn't been working a plan for the last year and a half. So, I think that's where risk is okay to take. Like, as long as you have a plan behind it, and it is a bit calculated, what I've learned in my life is that I'm never going to just fall completely flat on my face as long as I do the pre-work before taking that risk. I think some risks are really dangerous. The problem is we think we think most things that are we treat, most things like, oh my god, my 401k slipped by one tenth of one percent this month. Like, we have the same reaction to that. Well, my god, like, so as we do, you know, last night we saw a coyote walking around. Like, that is a much bigger risk to me than my my 401k. If that thing was rabbit and decides to attack me, I have to trip backs and run fast through the river. I think I'm next to my buddy. I think that that's the problem with risk, because we're often treating it like, it's something that's dangerous. For me, it was riskier to stay because I saw what the outcome was when those guys I aspire to be like, that's real risk. That going down that route, you know, being fat overweight and just unhealthy in general, but also being unhappy. That's pretty risky too. Being dissatisfied with the life you're living. How long are you going to do that before you start to look back and regret the life that you lived? And I could see that right then. Like, I don't regret spending that time of my 20s learning what I learned. And that was, I learned a whole lot that I was able to squeeze out and pull forward, but I know if I would have continued down that path much longer. I wouldn't have been living the life that I wanted to live. And it's not a perfect life. I still feel stress and anxiety and there are times where it's really difficult. In fact, there are times it's so difficult where I'm like, man, it would be easier to just go back and work for someone. I don't want to make all the damn decisions. And the truth is that when you look at the aggregate, it's so much better. And it's actually less risky now than what it was before. By the way, staying with where I was, ultimately would have been the biggest risk because they were acquired by another company, by a larger telecom company that ate them up. And then very likely I would have been gone in that transition back in 2014 or whatever. And then if I wouldn't have prepared for it, you know, I would have been scrambling to try to find a similar telecom job and Providence Rhode Island or something. Like, just trying to find whatever I can get to pay the bills because I was still attached to that lifestyle. And that's a real risk. Hmm. It seems like the smartest thing that you can do is to develop and learn skills that aren't going out of style anytime soon. So if you develop becoming a better writer or if you learn how to become a filmmaker or photographer, these are all things that aren't going to go away very soon. And it's something that if you can build something on your own and learn how to pick up some freelance jobs, even if the economy is doing that, even if there aren't many jobs, you can probably still pick up some work. When you press record for the first time on a camera, you, it's not like, well, I'm getting paid to do this. It had to do with something you're interested in, something that maybe aligned with what you wanted to do in the future. But it wasn't about money first. And I think a lot of these things for them to work out well for us long term is you want to be able to do it even if it's not sustainable monetarily. But then you can also look to see, does anyone make money doing this? Is there anyone who makes money as a filmmaker? Is there anyone who makes money as a writer? And the answer is, of course, yes. And I mean, you can find someone who is a clown who, I mean, literally, dresses up like clowns and makes money. That's what you're passionate about and great. If you're passionate about teaching horseback writing, you can find a way to make a living from that, from that passion, or at least somewhere that's adjacent to that passion. For me, it was a date like I wrote fiction. That was the thing I always wanted to do. And now I write a lot less fiction because we had this whole beautiful nonfiction. It was adjacent to what I was already doing. And for you, I mean, you started out, you were doing wedding videography. Bar mitz, I would do that. I was just looking at some of the old bar mitz for intro videos I made. I saw it with a bat on fire. Wasn't that incredible? I'm like, but you know what? Actually, I learned and relearned about how I approached those projects back in the day. Is that was a bar mitz video? There weren't high expectations. But I used it as an opportunity to practice color grading, to learn after effects, and how to track fire onto a baseball bat. I was like, holy cow, I probably learned a lot from that project. But you can't just say, oh, this is just something that's temporary. I feel like anytime you're developing your skill on your craft, you have to put yourself into it. Yeah, I think we all, we're all born with some sort of talents, but we often mistake those talents for skill. A skill is actually developed. And you have to spend time. So you might have a natural eye to see lighting or the way that you focus a camera or the way that you are filming a particular scene. You might have a natural eye for that. But what makes it beautiful is the skill of figuring out how to do it most effectively. I think it's the same with anything else. Any other creative endeavor. Not even creative endeavors. Being in the business world, I learned how to run a business, not by going to some class and reading about business theory, but by opening dozens of retail stores and managing hundreds of employees over many years, I messed up a lot. I had mentors on my own, but it was on the job training. It was much more effective than just going to a class and trying to sort of learn via osmosis or just, you can't just read what's on your page here and then all of a sudden say, well, now I know how to direct a film. It doesn't work that way. It's the same with writing a book. It's the same with pretty much any endeavor, creative or not. Yeah, there are so many entrepreneurial books you can read before you have to just put them down and actually try to start a business. And you can get some good sort of best practices from those, but you still have to implement that in your everyday life, otherwise it's useless. Yeah, I think it's like you get the the guiding wisdom and good mentoring from that. So say if you don't have mentors in your life that can guide you in the right way and say, hey, it's just it's not always about the bottom line. It's very easy to get caught up in the rat race of the nine to five corporate world, but there is still a rat race beyond that in the entrepreneurial world and somebody running their own business because it can very quickly become about likes, about how many followers you have, about how big your audience is, how well we did this quarter compared to next quarter. How did you guys from the onset make sure you didn't fall back into that trap? My number one secret is I spend less money than what I make. So like Josh and I are never comparing last quarter versus this quarter or last year versus this year. I mean, we have an idea because we do our taxes, but we don't ever sit down and we're like, oh man, you know, we made 10,000 bucks last to this year. How can we, how can we make that delta back up this year? Yeah, you're pushing more books, right? Yeah, and it's funny Jessica came to so Jessica, Jessica Williams, she runs our social media, really fortunate enough to have her, she curates everything. So we still interact on social media, but she curates a lot of the posts and stuff that we have. We also bring her on the road to to share some of our pith answers when we're doing live podcasts on stage. She live tweets and stuff. And she came to me early on in the tour this year. She said, you know, you guys have just never asked me like about engagement and clicks and likes. She's like, how am I supposed to know if I'm doing well? How am I? Are you doing well? And she's like, yeah, but I think I can improve this. I can improve this and this and I said, okay, but none of those things have to do with likes. How much of influence you have has very little to do with the counts. It's one of the nice things about Netflix. We went to go meet with Netflix a few months ago and they're like, secretly, we'd love to know how many people saw the film because you know it's in the tens of millions at this point, just based on on the amount of traffic that has cascaded our way. But you'd love to know, like, how's the film doing? Well, other, like, you want to get the stats on it, right? Because mainly because they don't share it with you. In fact, the lady said, we don't even share the numbers with Kevin Spacey. You think we're going to share it with you? And it was a good point, but in a weird way, that was freeing. And because we actually run the rest of our business, if you want to call it that the same way, we'll look at our traffic stats once a year to give to our publicists, so they can say, well, if they're reaching out to someone here's the what they get, but I'm not looking at the numbers, the downloads, all this other stuff. Because you start to like that influence the way that you are creating. If I could just have a more creative thumbnail and for this video, or if I could just have a better title for this, and that's why you see all these vapid, click, baby, list of calls, or you must do this, the secret to this, the 67 ways to blank in your life. Does anyone really walk away from that? I feel like they were there a better person after reading it, or did they just feel like, oh, shit, I just waste the last 90 seconds. I'm a numbers guy. I love numbers. I probably look at the numbers more than Josh. But for me, it's numbers are fun, so that's one thing I like, I like looking at them. I mean, I partly play fantasy football because I love the numbers, man. I love researching and doing all the calculations and figuring out who I should start and so forth and so on. But those numbers are not the driver. If anything, I might be an indicator. If I look at a dip in traffic and Josh and I hadn't put an essay out in a week or two, which I don't think we have around two weeks without putting an essay. But that isn't indicator, right? Oh, okay, great. People aren't just coming back to our site. They do want some fresh content. But again, to me, it's like, it's like when I feel stress, I don't just sit there and react to the stress. It's more like, what is this? What is this telling me? Is it telling me anything or like, what do I need to focus on? So like, I'll look at numbers of that way. But I'll tell you, man, like, you know, when I've got to 10,000 Twitter followers versus 30,000 Twitter followers, it doesn't feel any different. It wasn't the key to having those. It's a damn you didn't find it. It's 50,000 Twitter followers. I remember Josh, we had a conversation early on. I was asking for advice. It was around the same time we were talking about what to name my podcast. And I was like, by the way, for those of you who listen to this on the minimalist podcast, he is called the ground up show, you can find it on Apple podcast or wherever. And you should check it out if you enjoy podcast because it is a good podcast. So there's there's the plug for that. Thank you so appreciate it. And also video, if you want to see me and Ryan, this is all on video right now as well. We'll probably put this up on our YouTube page as well. But he has a whole map and that has a whole YouTube page with all that stuff. So yeah, ground up show, you can find it. Yeah. So we have this early conversation. And I was just trying to pick your brain, get some advice about how, what can I do? Because this is really a time when I was starting to make original content for the first time. We just put out minimalism. And this was, I did freelance film work for a very long time. I loved it. It was great. But minimalism was a chance for me to get something, put something out that I really cared about. This was at the top of my bucket list, make a document. Literally four months before we started the documentary before Josh emailed me about it. It was on my bucket list. I wrote, make a documentary about something I care about. Something I'm passionate about. And then that email comes in. I'm like, oh, shit. Josh hack into my emails. The secret secret. And well, I've really quick. So that goes to the thing Ryan was talking about earlier with with high standards and low expectations. Because we went into making that documentary with high standards. And we all had, let's say, heavy opinions about the direction and where we wanted it to go. We went back and forth. And the final version that ended up in theaters on Netflix was like the 9th version. And it had gone through a bunch of iterations. There was a dip there in the middle with the far go incident. We wanted to go into the far go incident. We thought that Matt just just to recap what we thought Matt was like punking us. Like it was the early April Fool's Joker or something. But yeah, he sent us a cut of the documentary that actually ended up shaping the direction of the documentary to be much better. Yeah. But what he sent us was terrifyingly bad. It was avant-garde. It was just, no, it was just very street fun. It was mostly interviews. I saw what you were trying to do with it, man. So I told her what you're going. But yeah. But talking about that process, how many times did you Josh and I like how often did we talk about where the documentary was going as far as distribution and what our expectations were for. We literally like it was in the very beginning, we might have said, oh yeah, I mean, we'll probably just release it through Vimeo, put it like say, give it to our audience and maybe we'll find it out. Yeah. We didn't have a specific expectation is really at the point. But there was no document floating around that was like, we need to get a movie theaters. We need to get with Netflix. We need to, I mean, and we were supposed to film festivals. And we were putting money into it too. But like, we didn't, honestly, it was like, yeah, if we make our money back, that'd be cool. But I don't care. I just want to make this movie. I just want to put it out there. This is a chance for me to actually direct a feature like documentary. It was more about climbing the mountain than it was about trying to make money or trying to reach a certain amount of people. Well, it continued to continue that metaphor. It was more about climbing the mountain than reaching the summit. Yeah. And I think that it was about enjoying the climb because going through it, the better part of three years from the very first frame to being out on on Netflix, it was quite the journey. And that whole time, it wasn't, because if we would have had the expectations like, well, we want to be in the Toronto Film Festival in this and this and like, we did submit to a bunch of film festivals and learned that total racket in a waste of money. And we had this great film that didn't get accepted by a lot of film festivals, but it got accepted by the most important type of acceptance, which is having an actual audience who enjoys it and finds that film transformative. And it wasn't our expectation to get it on the Netflix. It was our high standards that ended up getting it on there in the long run. In fact, they even said no to the documentary a couple times and we had to go through, you know, sort of third party and work that out. But it wasn't like, well, this is a failure if it doesn't, if X, Y and Z, it doesn't happen. No, it's a success as long as you're standards. And I think it's, yeah, get ready for a lot of knows because like you said, we got rejected from a lot of film festivals. A lot of people we asked that we wanted to interview in the film said no, who are you guys? Right. A lot of like you said Netflix said no in the beginning. You can't let those stop you from from moving forward. So we put out minimalism and this is, you know, my first time putting an original work out there and I was like, this is cool. Like, I want to keep doing this. Like, this is a lot of fun. I really enjoyed it. So that's why I started the podcast and also I had a lot of filmmakers asking me for advice about how we put it together. And I think a lot of people had this expectation that it's a Netflix documentary that was 20 people in the background orchestrating everything. Everything was like, um, it was Matt with that camera right there, legitimately. Actually, it wasn't even the camera. It was nice. It was that camera. Yeah. It was just running around with the camera and like a lighting kit that filled up about half of the car. We got a photo actually when I left on tour with you guys with you posing next to the lights. I'm still missed that, I think. Yeah. The lighting kit. Yeah. I had to let it go. So it was, you know, I was like, all right, how do I do this, Josh? Like, what did you have some pointers and advice? Like, I know I need to make consistent content. That's like number one. I just got to keep putting content out there. Oh, and then you just stop me. You're like, Matt, just wait a minute. Like, you have to make meaningful content. It's not about the amount of content you put out there being consistent and important, but you have to consistently make meaningful content. Yeah. And in fact, I, I try to stop using that word all together because for me, it has a negative connotation now. I realize it doesn't have to have a negative connotation, but for me, if I'm mine, it does because it's, it's so just right when I hear like, yeah, it's really about, you know, got to put more content out there. And that's the internet cultural arena that's putting more content. And I try to issue content and instead produce meaningful creations. And so to me, it's about producing meaningful creations, not content creation. And I think if you can delineate the two, the question is, well, what does meaningful to you? And this means it's going to be meaningful for everyone. You're still going to get one star reviews and thumbs down or whatever else. And that just means that someone else was like, hey, this wasn't for me. And that's okay. In fact, we have an SNR website called this probably isn't for you. And when someone, whenever someone leaves like a terrible comment or whatever, Jessica will just send them the link to that essay, this probably isn't for you. And that's okay. And realizing that is really freeing because you realize you're not making something for everyone. It's not vanilla ice cream. You want, you want something with your own flavor to it. And not everyone is going to enjoy the taste of what you're making. And I think that's okay. But if you find it meaningful, there's a good chance that other people will. Because there's a lot of other people who are a lot like you, not demographically like you, but like minded and open minded and are asking some of the same questions that you're asking. And if you can produce something meaningful instead of just trying to produce something for the sake of producing something. Because well, it is another Wednesday and I have to put on another vlog today or it's every day of a vlog thing. And to me, there are some people who can do that really well. They can do a daily vlog and it's really good the vast majority of the time. Just like Seth Gauden can write a blog post every day. And he is, we were at a conference once and a gal there, Amanda, I think her name was, often this fit. She was talking about how she interned for Seth Gauden for a while and she said, and it was like the best moment in my life because Seth Gauden is my Beyonc. And I'm like, I kind of feel that way too. Like in terms of blogging, not writing in general. People that are much better writers than Seth Gauden, there is, I can't name another person who's even as close to being as good at blogging as Seth Gauden. And he's able to do it every day. And here's the key. It's meaningful. What he produces are meaningful creations. He's not posting every day for the sake of content creation. I think if you ever got there, he'd walk away from it. How do you keep up that consistency and how do you consistently be good? Like that seems to be really challenging to create, you know, a lot of his stuff will have some overlaps. Same with you guys, you're talking about simple living. There's only so much that you can touch on. How do you continue to make consistently meaningful and good quality essays? That's kind of the answer to the question. Like you have to consistently write because you're actually consistently getting better when you put forth the effort. Yeah, so it's not even consistently good. It's consistently getting better. Yeah. Yeah, it's a good point, man. I feel that that, you know, even with the podcast, there are some episodes very recently back in the mid 90s. We did mid 90s isn't our, we're on our 100th episode. So what's going to say? I was like, you guys are ahead of me. We've gained the podcast because it's the mid 90s. That would have been great if we were to start at this podcast in high school. Oh, man. I was still running 20 something years. Yeah. Well, he's been 20 years and man. Oh, you know, the kids out there started podcast and keep it going for 20 years. Yeah. Yeah, seriously. And if we were at the Academy of podcasters convention recently, Ryan is now an academy and not nominated Academy Award nominee. Academy Award. Is that, I'd like to make it to the nomination? Yeah, we, uh, our podcast got not. We, we lost the, the award. Oh, do we were nominated is winning Josh? Yeah. Do we? Yeah, but we were on the list of like Dan Savage and yeah, just prolific yeah, Dr. Foxy. Yeah, like I'm like, I don't even know how we ended up on that list. We joined fellow losers like Joe Rogan and Tim Ferriss and Sam Sam Harris. Yeah. Anyway, um, I find that, um, consistently do it, but also being, well, uh, so here's, here's a better answer for you. Being willing to throw away a lot. And remember, especially on for every initially, probably every five podcast we recorded, we published one. And over time it was three. And then it was like two. And now, even now, it's like we recorded a podcast and Philadelphia recently and I don't know that. It's that one we've ever seen the light of day. Or maybe our Patreon supporters will get to hear it, uh, we'll put it out eventually later. But, uh, it wasn't something that I walked out of there happy with at all. And that was happening a lot early on, especially with the writing. So, uh, we've published three books together. I published one novel that novel was 900 pages that it's bloated zenith. And, and, and it's 200 pages now. And the point was, there's a whole lot that has to hit the cutting room floor. And you, you show this with the documentary, man. Can you imagine, so I would imagine you have 2,000 hours of footage from all everything that we did again, most of it being sunsets in Santa Fe, New Mexico. Yeah, and messed up sunsets. Uh, I'll never forget this sunsets we watched together. Yeah, it was beautiful. It was an experience. Um, anyway, um, if you had to, if you just published all 2,000 hours, it would be the worst documentary of all time. That's, that's the Fargo Cat. It makes you think of the, um, exit through the give shop, the first cut of the documentary that that dude made for Banksy. Anyway, that's so, that, that's so, it was so bad. It was good. Right. It was in the context of one of the best documentaries of all time, exit through the give shop. Um, and, and I feel that this is the same thing with anything we do. People see the end product. And they're like, how hard could it be to make 79 minute documentary? It's not a 79 minute documentary initially. It's thousands of hours of footage and you have to figure out the right bits to curate. And I think it's the same with anything else that you're doing. Now, different mediums, lend themselves the different types of communication. With our podcast, we don't, you're not going to do for 79 minute interview. You're not going to do 2,000 hours of interviewing. Um, but it, it may mean that you throw away some podcasts that just didn't work out. You re-recorded them. That's a riot. I quite often early on, because most of our podcasts are on about a particular topic. So we have a topic budgeting. We'd sit there and record two hour podcasts. And we'd look at each other afterwards. Like, that was crap, wasn't it? Yeah, I didn't like it. All right, see tomorrow. We'll come back and answer the same exact questions again. And hopefully it'll be better tomorrow. And if it's not, we'll do it again. Or maybe we'll just set it aside. I have a list of maybe 200 essays that I've started and are in some various stage of completion that may never get completed or that they, they may get completed someday. There might be an idea that was great 7 years ago. In fact, I was talking, uh, Andrew Bell about this. We did that Andrew Bell on our podcast. He's like our favorite musician. Uh, he was on our Indianapolis podcast, which was truly great. He performed a live song on there. And his new album, it took 4 years to put together. And he said the first song, the first song he wrote for it. He wrote 7 years ago. And he just couldn't find a way to make it work until the last year. And even you ask him how many, how many songs did not make the record? There's only 10 songs or there's 11 songs in the album. It's as long as album. 11 songs on it. And he's like nothing. Everything from my last four years is here. But it took me, it took me sometimes seven years to get the song right. So the way he does it is he'll put as many years into something as he needs to make it right. Not perfect, but make it the best given the circumstances and the resources that he has. I was just noticing this as I was working on this project, this video we're working on right now. And I'm watching it back. And it always the first cut's going to be a little bit longer. It's going to be have some extra stuff. But you don't realize it, even if you do 10 passes through, you don't realize all the extra stuff that you don't need in it, how you could shape it down. And I was kind of, a lot of it's based on your gut, right? And your intuition, where if you're looking at a page and you're reading through it, you're like, that part doesn't really feel right. It doesn't sound right. And then what is it about the process, the creative process, where you start to figure out what's working and what's not. I teach it right in class. And one of the things I have to communicate with students is you are simultaneously more interesting and less interesting than you think. And I think it's a problem. We have this fear in our lives. I was like, the video you're talking about the trailer for, we're doing this first physical good we've ever done, right? And it's a bag. And what you're going through there, when you have that four minute, seven minute video that you're starting to whittle down, is we get so married to a particular scene, or a particular line. And we say, I can't, I can't divorce myself from that. And who is a Fitzgerald who said, kill your darlings with respect to writing? And I think quite often we have to be willing to let go of anything that doesn't really move it forward and make it better. And part of that has to do with emotional detachment from the creation. And that comes during the editing process. You want to have plenty of emotional detachment up front to make that thing is interesting as possible. But then to call it down to what its essence is, to make it the most beautiful, brevity is the soul of wit, to get down to that. You kind of have to remove yourself from and say, I'm willing to delete anything from this. One of the tips that I teach writing students is one of the things you want to do is delete your first two paragraphs and anything you write, see if it makes it better. And quite often it does, because we have too much throat clearing at the beginning of our writing, and that will happen with any greater than double. That's a really good point. Yeah, I'm thinking like two of my most favorite books is one of them is the flinch. Yeah, Julian Smith is an awesome book. What is it like 80 something pages? I think it's 30 pages. Yeah, I read it in a day. Did you take the cold shower in it? Yeah, yeah, it's a great. Yeah. But like that was one of those was a very impactful impact for book. I read it in a cold shower. You're like, what's that heavy, Julian? Josh has always got to one of everyone. Yeah. And then the other one is, oh no, it's everything you want or anything you want. Anything Derek Severus? Yeah, by Severus. Yeah. And like that one is, like every line is tweetable. Yeah, the eight pages, man. Yeah. It's, it's a weird thing because I agree that in terms of like sort of nonfiction books that's certainly one of my favorite because it's it's like full of these little zen maximums almost. So that, like you said, they're all sort of tweetable, right? And then there are other people like David Foster Wallace, you know, probably the most impressive book I've ever read. And it's just impressive by the fact that you can, if you read a book like this, but then you think about the guy writing it is infinite just. And it's, it's 1100 pages is like 9.5. It's super dense. Paragraphs and synths is going on for pages. And every sentence is beautiful. It looks like every sentence is sculpted. And when you realize that he wrote the book within in three years, how, how, and he was younger than we are now, all he's older than you are Matt, you're still in your 20s for lady. Yeah, it's right. I'm, I'm not exactly knocking on 40s door yet, but I'm walking down the path toward toward the screen door at least. We have no choice, judge. Anyway, you read something like that and you realize like what is possible and it's possible also challenge the audience. So reading books like whether it's a flinch or infinite just and realizing like, oh, there is something else that's possible. I'm not, I'm not capable of doing that, but what can I get from it? And what I learned from a book like infinite just is there's a great payoff at the end, but you have to literally read all of a hundred pages and take six months to read this book. But, but you can require hard work of your audience. And if, if you do so in a, in the flinch is the same way, Julian Smith is a guy who will shake the hell out of you and you'll thank him afterward for shaking you. Most people come with me and shake me, I want to fight them, but, but, Julian, for some, somehow, he's able to approach it. You're like, wow, I needed that, and so, sometimes it's about challenging the audience. Rob Bell says, you want to stay one half step ahead of the audience. You don't want to be a step or two ahead because you're too far and your ideas are way too out there, but if you're half step ahead of someone, it allows them to want to follow and catch up. There's something beautiful about being inspired by somebody like, say David Foster Wallace, where you look at that book and you're like, oh man, like, I need to step my game up. I need to step my shit up. But then there's also people that I would see that I'm like, well, if they can do it, I can do it. And that's kind of why I started the podcast. I was like, I could do this. Other people are in a podcast. Yeah, I could do it. I think you need to be motivated in both ways to see what's possible and also to push yourself where you didn't think you could go. Yeah, I tend not to compare myself with others just because I will, you know, find the people who I really look up to and it makes me feel like I had to step my game up and then, you know, it'll like make me for something that I should not have forced. But yeah, but it is good to know where you're at. I mean, just as far as talent. And, you know, honestly, that whole community of people of minimalist at Josh introduced me to, like, they've been huge inspiration for, you know, the last seven years. So you certainly do need to like, read other people's work and, you know, if you're a filmmaker, you should watch a lot of movies and see what styles you like and look at other people's recipes and see if there's any ingredients that you can apply to yourself. We were talking about this a couple of days ago about self reliance and how it's, it's changed over time and how self reliance used to be starting a fire, building shelter and maybe being able to fix your car or change a light bulb. And today, it's changed pretty dramatically, especially in our digital age, it's can be about growing an audience, about having a creating a brand, which would be almost like presenting yourself online, how do people perceive you? I'm curious, so I, I want to try to help and give people advice that are really starting out on this. Like, say somebody starting out with zero followers or they don't have any presence online and they want to be able to put themselves out there. Imagine you guys, like, there was some crazy incident, somebody hacked into all your files, your website crashed and then somebody went through, like, your computer is in burned up and that all your hard drives are destroyed and you guys, the minimalist were gone. The sort of happened recently, thankfully Jeff was around. So we had a malicious attack on our website and someone deleted everything. This is actually the first time we've talked about a publicly, I think. Yeah, it was, it was terrifying, but like, now I went to the tour page, I'm like, what is it look like the tour page is deleted? Yeah. And then it looked like everything was deleted and someone went in, deleted everything, and it looked like, yeah, it was holy cow. And like, we just thought it was gone. Like, and, and thankfully Jeff, who's our very talented web developer over at Spire, he was able to recover and work for several days straight to to fix everything. And man, it was, so shout out to Spire Media for what we did. It was like the day, we had some kind of tickets go on sale for it. It was like the first layer of our tour. Yeah, I was like, we had just announced, yeah, our tour. Yeah, so we were like, hey, hey, go to less is now.com. It was just forwards to our tour page, basically at the minimum lists. And people go there and it was just nothing there. Yeah. And it was like a worst possible time for that. Man, I tell you, I'm so grateful for going there, because I've had a lot of, let's just shitty stuff happen over the last few years. And it's allow me to deal with those things a lot better. And it could all blow up tomorrow and know that I know that I'd be completely fine. And I wouldn't even have the same reaction. I would have had seven years ago where I'd be throwing stuff across the room. And I mean, I'll still get angry, but I think it'd be appropriate, it would be appropriate response. You know, I'm not going to be the psychopath who just who has no emotional reaction to it. But it's a more sort of tempered reaction to the negative news. But what I would tell someone who's just starting out is zero followers. You're starting the same place I did. You're starting the same place everyone else does as well. And it gets, man, I know early on, especially the first year, you get really caught up. And oh my god, I got to a thousand Twitter followers or a hundred thousand Instagram, whatever. And that doesn't mean anything at the end of the day. Ryan said it earlier, like ten thousand followers, this isn't going to make you happy. Those metrics mean very little if you're not creating what you want to create. Because here's the thing, what if you did get to a million followers, but you're doing something that was awful. Like you just didn't enjoy doing. Now you're in a different kind of trap. You walked away from one. You got a one cage and you walked into another cage. And even if it's a prettier cage, then you enjoy the cage a little bit more. It's still a cage. And if you're trapped by what your the size of your audiences, I mean Freud would have a lot to say about that. I do. I completely agree with you on all fronts. What's difficult and challenging as a creator is that when you build an audience and obviously like I don't think just looking at the numbers like we said is an unhealthy thing to do and it's not, it shouldn't be the end goal period. But having an audience and having say 10,000, 20,000 Twitter followers, whatever it is, in a way it is cloud. And so if I could develop a bigger audience, I could get a bigger guest on my show. I could get interesting people on my show wouldn't be as challenging to find new guests. So there are doors that open when you do have a following. And I think that's what's tough is that that balancing act between not caring about how many followers you have because you really want to focus on what you want to make and you're doing it because you really love it. And also knowing that it will be and could be beneficial to grow this audience and to also impact more people and change lives. Yeah if you've got a million Twitter followers and you go to someone and say hey we do want to be on my podcast. Yes like they're more likely to look at your followers and you're like oh you've got a million Twitter followers. True. I would love to be introduced to your audience. So yeah I think that is certainly certainly true where it does open doors. But like you said it is, I don't think it's necessarily unhealthy to look at numbers but it can certainly be unhealthy to look at those numbers because if you start working for the numbers, well you're not working for yourself anymore and that is a really it's a really fast way to kill any but any passion. I feel like a lot of times you try to think about the big picture and where you want to go with something but at the end of the day it's just you on the desk writing or editing or making that video or producing what you really enjoy. So it's like yeah you can look at that and you can stress out about it if you want but you looking at it and paying attention to it and say if it's a problem that you don't have a lot of followers, it's actually not going to help anything. No. Well and so so if you were to take a photo of a rainbow in black and white, that's kind of like looking at the numbers. That's all you do is look at the numbers and that's how you steer. It's like trying to look at a rainbow and gray scale. You're missing out on all the other things that make the creation beautiful and you're right it may be easier you're right I was saying if you have a million Twitter followers you can get an interview with you might be able to get the rock. I'm actually going to bring that up. I don't know if the cameras can see it. I can tell you I look at it could totally see it. It's rock right there in the color. It's great if I'm trying to show it. Yeah right there. So Matt really wants to get the rock on his podcast. Here's the thing. I don't know if you had a million Twitter followers that would even matter to him at all. So it may even turn him away. It may it may turn him off and land it's another big podcast who cares. But here's the thing we turn down interviews all the time of people who have tons of followers online just because we have to say no to a lot so we can say yes to the most important things. However, there are occasionally people who come to me and you know it's like I'm working on this PhD dissertation on minimalism and here's why it would be really important to have you involved in this and they don't have any Twitter followers anything but there's a compelling case to make. And I think the point is that yes it may it may remove some friction to have more of those followers. But I'm worried less about removing friction. I'm worried more about gaining traction. And you need a little bit of friction to create that traction. So you talked about having those challenges. Yeah, some of those challenges are what makes the thing interesting. Yeah, I think limitations breed creativity. It's one of the reasons I think the documentary turned out so well. And if we would have a $20 million budget to make the documentary. Hell, we would have had a $1 million budget to make the documentary. I don't know that we would have made as good of a final product. We may have, we may have not because it wouldn't have been the same sort of bootstrapped thing that it was. It may have not had the same essence. It may have looked amazing and you may, I don't know, you had some flaming baseball bats in it or something. Yeah, yeah. But it may have lost what made it what made it beautiful. Yeah, and I'm glad that you brought up the rock because this, this to me is, it's kind of just a crazy unrealistic goal. Like, why would the rock want to come on my podcast? You guys seem to do a pretty good job of getting your message out there and sharing it. And in what way do you think I could get the rock on this podcast? Like come over to my apartment. And literally it's just been me and him and have a conversation about how he, how he built his. So, you know, I think for Josh and I, you know, thinking about the documentary and how we were able to get people like, you know, Sam Harris and Dan Harris to be on the, in the documentary. It's because like we had something to offer them. It wasn't just, hey, would you be on my show to help my show be, you know, but to have more, more cloud or so I can get more listeners. It was, hey, we have an audience. This is our first feature link documentary. You know, we have high standards. We don't really have any expectations, but, but it's going to be a great film. Would you like to be part of this? We'd love to introduce you to our audience. So, I don't think there's anything wrong with asking, but it's kind of the problem with you millennials, man. You think you can just ask for it. Yeah. Well, it isn't, in part of the thing is like the Ryan left out there is that you add value first. And so, giving examples with Sam Harris and Dan Harris, particularly both have books come out in 2014. And I said, I reached out to both of them and said, hey, we would love to review your book for you and give you an honest review. I love to do an interview with you about it as well. And don't want anything in return. Just want to be able to give us to our audience because I've found value in both of your books. So, waking up and 10% happier. And, and I said, great. And then they saw that it got a good response. And then it made them more willing to do something like the documentary. And now, by the way, the documentary has done so well for them. Dan Harris, we were with him in New York a couple of weeks ago. And he said, I've never been recognized from more from one media thing in my, and he's a guy who's on TV five, six days a week. Yeah, holy church. Yes. And he said, I've never been recognized more from one thing. He goes, I was talking to Sam about this and Sam said the same thing. No. Yeah, and Sam, that's amazing. Yeah. Sam, email me last one. He's like, hey, can I get a copy of your writer for the tour? So, I'd like to make sure I'm doing this tour. I'm doing correctly. And so, like, it's about adding value. But here's, here's the key without any expectation of getting something back. It's not quit pro quo. Because here's the other thing. That's the secret. You want to be able to add value to someone's life. And realize that you may not get the same amount of value back. But, but you may, like, for me, like David Foster Wallace, then we talked about earlier. There's literally no way I can pay him back because he's no longer alive. And by the way, even if he was alive, you know, Mary Carr is another writer who I really look up to. I think her work is phenomenal. I think she's the best memoirs to ever live. And I look at her writing. There's nothing I could do that would add more value to her life than she's added to my life in terms of shaping my writing. And so, the only thing I could do is try to add value to other people's lives instead. Yeah. So, so, like, when it comes to the rock, the question isn't, like, how can I come up with this hashtag campaign to get the rocks attention? Like the best way to get someone's attention is to add value to their lives. Yeah. And there is a hashtag, though, it's called, get the rock on Matt's podcast. The same website, get the rock on Matt's podcast.com. But I actually did buy it. That's just as $20 I ever spent. That's all. But I think, I actually, I got a really good idea. I think from just this conversation. And my takeaway is make the rock smile. And that's like my bare minimum is that I want to touch the rock, not literally. That would be creepy. Can we just get that into a three second Instagram video? I keep doing this. I keep like, I get, I got to watch out for the sound by still get you. So you lived off it. You wanted to touch the rock. I wanted to touch the rock emotionally. But like, so if I can make a video in some way that he sees, that makes him smile, that makes him laugh. Because like, what, like, I'm not going to do anything, you know, his career isn't going to be made when he comes on my podcast. Like, there's not, I don't have that value to add. But there's maybe something else that I can give him. But yeah, making somebody laugh like that is totally adding value. I mean, that's, that is one step closer than just my brother. My brother suggested that I interview an actual codfish. Because I don't know if you guys know, but he eats like eight pounds of codfish every day. Oh wow. So it's like, maybe I could do that. Like, understand the enemy, they're outstanding me. And then put it pot. Guys, episode where he's just me talking to a codfish. There's a lot of ideas. I'm pretty excited. But you guys have really figured out a way, which I'm still learning to balance, creating, meaning for work, and also having really healthy productive habits in your personal lives. And like, it seems like there's a really beautiful blend between your personal work lives where it's almost like you couldn't even draw the line. What are some of the, I guess most helpful habits you guys have developed? But I think work life balance is sort of overrated in many ways. Because it presupposes that you have like two different selves and they're sitting in separate offices or something like, well, here's my, and that was actually a big problem for me. When I was in my 20s, I had professional JFM and then personal JFM. And for me, it was like, the personal side, I wanted to want to be a writer. I won the right and I did that whenever I had spare time. But of course, you wouldn't talk about that in the corporate world because in a weird way, they almost discouraged that kind of creativity. Like, well, how are you doing that? Seems like a waste of time. Why aren't you spending more time networking or whatever? And what I realized, like, that was unhealthy for me to have these two separate selves. And so now it's more about being integrated. So you can call it work life balance or whatever. But the use of what habits earlier, and I agree that I have some pretty good habits. But I think it goes back to what Ryan was just saying is a lot of it just has to do with saying managing your time. And so for me, that just means saying no to virtually everything. Usually, we do only, we'll do only like one sort of media thing a week or we're doing, we're actually doing three this week. We said yes to three, which is a very rare thing. We spoke at Google yesterday and we're doing today's show later this afternoon for the Australian tour. So Australia today show and then we're doing the ground up podcast. It's an up-and-coming podcast I've heard about it. Yes, yes. You hear that the rock? The ground up show. You got to do Matt's podcast. Anyway, anyway, so so I'll say no to a whole lot because I know what I'm saying yes to. And if I think it really clear on what you're saying yes to, and by the way, I still scrub all the time. I accidentally say yes to things I should have said no to. And even now I'll say yes to something and it like we'll do an interview somewhere and I'm like how that was supposed to weigh different from what it, how it was pitched to us. And had I had all the role of in data, I would have said no to this thing. But you lesson learned and you move on and try to incorporate that lesson going forward. You put your questions to ask next time, you know, we certainly have that album. So I think it's weird. Like when we first started, we said yes to virtually everything. I think it's about saying to you reach this delta where you have to start saying no. And so it was yes, anyone, if someone had two Twitter followers, one interview me, I'm like, yeah, someone wants to listen to me great. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. I'll say yes as much as I can because I'm growing, I'm learning from that experience. But eventually you get to a point where you have to start saying no. And then you figure out what you're saying yes to one of the most important things. And first it's important to say yes as much as you can, just to sort of build up that that creative ability to, I mean, if you're doing a podcast, you want to be able to to interview other people, say yes, yes, yes. And so you get good at that aesthetic. One day, you know, Charlie Rose didn't become Charlie Rose overnight. And now he has to be selected who he says yes to because it can negatively impact his show, if he's saying yes to anyone who just on the street who wants to be interviewed. Yeah, I think I don't know if this is a habit as much as it is a tool. But do my calendar is like, that's my Bible. I mean, at the beginning of every week, Mark Mariah and I, we will look at our week and be like, okay, let's plan on our week. And then every night before I go to bed, I am looking at that. And if I don't use my calendar, I will double book myself. I will be late to stuff. I won't even show up to stuff. I mean, I had to learn that lesson, that hard lesson many times before I finally started treating my calendar like my Bible. Yeah, that's like one of those the very unsexy things about entrepreneurship and running your own business. And I mean, even if you're trying to keep track of your personal life, you got to have a calendar. And I recently did it where I had different Google accounts. I had my personal my business and I had like a separate one, like another my personal website. It was like all three of these and my calendars were different on each. And then I just took an entire day where I'm like, I need to get this shit straight. I'm going to go through and I'm going to combine all this things. I'm going to set forwarding filters. So if somebody emails my business, it still comes into my main inbox, but it comes into a separate folder. And it's organized nice and neat away. I did the same thing with my calendars. And the piece of mind I have now to know that I'm not confused with what I'm doing this week, what I'm doing later today, is super helpful. It takes away a lot of stress. It makes room for other good stresses, I guess. Yeah, like the actual creative pursuits you're trying to do. No, I think talking about the banality of being an entrepreneur, that was really really important because you know, you said at the beginning of this podcast, you know, I'm sure people want to do what you do. And I have you mentoring students who will say, man, I just teach me to do what you do. And I'm like, I don't know if you want to do what I do because, you know, what most people see is, or here, it will hear this recording. They'll see the video, the Washington documentary. They don't understand all of the banal things that have to be done in order to make all that happen. Something is simple as making sure that your calendar is straight and that you are committing to it and using that calendar to enter in every single appointment, whether it's business or whether it's, you know, going to, I mean, there was a point where I literally I'm going to work out. I'm going to read. I'm going to write. I'm going to, you know, have a mentoring client. I don't, I'm not as militant with it now, meaning like, I, if I have a free block, I'd, there are three things that I'm going to do with the free block. I'm going to read. I'm going to write or I'm going to go work out. So I just, you know, I, I will keep that, keep those blocks open during the week. But my point is, is that Josh and I, we still work some, some weeks, we'll still work 60, 70 hours. And it's really, really tough. Like, we're living the dream, but the catch with living the dream is you have to work your ass off. And those been all things are, are part of that. On that note, let's get to quick questions. It's the one and only segment of this podcast where I ask questions quickly. And you guys just answer them however you want. I haven't, I got to really come up with a good catch phrase to introduce it, but that's basically how it goes. We call it the lightning round on our podcast. Since we're, we're, we're across publishing this. We'll call this the hashtag ask the minimalist lightning round. This is where we answer questions from social media. We're at the minimalist on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Fantastic. See, you guys, you guys have been doing this over 100 episodes. I'm only about 30 in right now. By the way, we call these minimal maximums just to set up a website called minimal maximums.com. So all of our pithy answers, there are less 140 characters. You can find them all right there as well. That's great. Let's do that. We'll keep it pithy on these quick questions. Question number one, what's the simplest advice? That's the most important to follow. You can't change the people around you, but you can change the people around you. Dude, if there's one message that Josh and I are really trying to get people to understand, it would be this love people and use things because of the opposite, never works. Let's say somebody stuck in a career that they, they're really not happy with. They're not fulfilled. We're talking to that person. What can they do today to turn their life around to, to start in the right direction? The most important thing for that person, they probably know what they need to do. They need to do it. I mean, a lot of my mentoring students, you know, when they, when they come to me, they're like, oh, I want to, I want to paint and I want to finish this book, but I'm also working full time. And then like, I will talk through to them. Pick one thing to focus on and actually put in the work. If I were to just append that a little bit, I would say, don't just know what you want to know, what you want to do, know why you want to do it. And quite often, we think we want to do something. We don't realize the why behind it. And therefore we lose the leverage long term. If we, if we, if we don't know why we're doing what we're doing, we'll keep doing it for a while. But like I said earlier, you end up in the passenger seat of your own life and all of a sudden you're like, well, wait a minute, I'm not in control of this thing. I'm doing this thing. I thought I was supposed to do, but I don't even know why I'm doing this. So good clear on the why. That, I just realized that for myself and it came with a simple habit as waking up early. So waking up early is one of those things that I've struggled with my entire life, especially as a filmmaker, a freelance filmmaker. I always wanted to be the person to wake up early. And when I did, I loved it. Wake up at five, six a.m. was just, I felt so productive. I got more done by 11 a.m. that I did most days, most weeks combined. I wish I could sleep until six a.m. But then recently, past two months, I've been waking up at five, five, thirty a.m. every single day without fail. And it's because I got clear on the why. It was because I had work to do every day that I was passionate about because I wake up thinking about that. I wake up, I'm like, oh, I want to sit down at my desk and start working on it. It would be wonderful. Yeah. And honestly, that's the biggest thing before I didn't have anything. I wake up and I would have no work to do. I'd have nothing that I was passionate about and I would just hit the snooze button and eventually go back to bed. Yeah, because there was nothing compelling enough to make you get there. So that's the other thing. Find something compelling. And that's usually within the why. Ooh, that's pity. That's good. Dang it. Right that down podcast, Sean, wherever you are right now. Where do you guys go when you're feeling doubt? I could tell you I won't recently. Like, literally there's a physical place I won't. So we just moved out to Los Angeles. I've been having a lot of health issues last couple years. And we started running this apartment, but I've weird chemical sensitivities. And so we can't stay there. And I was all alone one week. I just went out to the museum, the Lakma down the street and just walked around. And like, like, because, you know, it's you know, I suppose to like have your phone out and all these other things. And like it was like this place of intentional distraction, but it allowed sort of my mind to wander in a way where it wasn't meditation, but it was meditative in a way. And sort of clear my thoughts. When I was back in Ohio, it was weird. I would just walk around. There was a neighborhood that I would walk around all the time. And develop a pattern of sort of thinking. And so I find for me that that you can't think your way out of problems, but if you need to collect your thoughts first, having going out for a long walk, like a 5, 6, 8 mile walk allows me to collect those thoughts. Yeah, I mean, I had the type of mind that like when I leave here, when we're done with this podcast, he's a really good brain. Yeah. Good. The best words. I'm going to start. Yeah. I'm going to start enrosing over it. Like I would be like, man, I should have said this. I rambled too much. I said that, oh, man, there's that one thing. I can kind of create my own reality in a way, meaning if I walk away from here and I say, this was a shitty interview. That was a shitty podcast or any related to bad job. Guess what? That's going to be true. If I walk away and I say, hey, you know what, man? Maybe it was in the perfect podcast, but there was some really good points from it. And it was fun. And we had a good time. And you know what, there is going to be someone out there who gets something out of it. That's also true. So what I've been able to do over the last like seven, eight years is really learn how to control that muscle. It started with like a rubber band type thing, flick of myself on the wrist when I'm getting negative thoughts, or there's this thing called the Pavlock that will like give you a little bit of a shock. You know, if you're trying to break a habit, but I would literally catch myself in those thoughts and do something like that and then try to redirect what those thoughts are. Now, what I'll also say is that anytime I do feel doubt, I will acknowledge it. I don't just pretend that like, Ryan, you shouldn't doubt yourself. Just think positive. You're not lying to yourself. Right. I'm not lying to myself. It's about looking at that doubt and being able to confront it head on and either take something away, learn something from it, or be able to like, look at that doubt and just kind of plow through and be like, do this doubt is not serving me any purpose. So where do I go? I guess I just go to a rubber band. I don't know. Well, I think you brought up something that was important there. When you're talking about don't lie to yourself, like, that I fight face the same thing. And sometimes those negative emotions are productive. So it's not only lie to myself, everything's positive. Everything I do is great. Every time my quilt touches the page, I write something that is legendary. No, the truth is most of stuff I write is garbage. Literally, like I have to throw it away. It reaches the trash can. And that's okay because it requires that sort of plethora of sediment if you're going to pan for gold. There's going to be a lot of sediment before you find the gold. And that's pithia. That's tweetable right there. And so I think it's important not to lie to ourselves and say, man, everything is great, great, great. But at the same time, I think we lied to ourselves the other way too, where that was awful. Everything's so bad. It was terrible. No, it wasn't awful. The truth is it was okay. And what kind of learned from the fact that it was okay? Let's not lie to ourselves on either side of it. What drives you? Why do you put in the work? It's a net positive. The work that I do will always be a net positive. And what I mean is it's rough being on tour. It's rough going from one city, getting there a few hours before the show. Do a sound check, go get dinner. Do the show. Go to bed at midnight. Get up at 6 a.m. rinse repeat. You know, two, three, four days in a row. But when we get there, when we get on stage, you know, when we have the hug line and you can just see how positive, Josh and I have influenced people like for me, like that is what makes it, makes it worthwhile. That is why I will put in the work. Now, if Josh and I were putting in all this work, and no one was showing up, and even though we thought it was really meaningful work, you know, we had zero people attending, like then it would be a net negative. Okay, this work that we're doing isn't doing anything. But man, yeah, for me, it's about the work that I put in each day. I just want it to be a net positive. And for me, that means that ultimately, what I do aligns with with my values and beliefs, that all those short-term actions, all those difficult, the been all things that we have to do as entrepreneurs, it all aligns with my long-term values and beliefs and like that for me is how I live a meaningful life. I think the thing that drives me has two things actually. And the contradictory, one is improving, so improving whatever I'm doing, so writing is one example. I was a pretty good writer in my 20s. In fact, there are parts in the novel out roads called As a Decade Fades, and I don't recommend people read it, but it's um, there are parts in there that are better than anything I could write right now, because it was a different mine frame, and I spent many years like chiseling away certain paragraphs and pages. And, and there are parts that are truly gorgeous that I'm just not in that mine frame anymore. But as a writer overall, I'm leaps and bounds better than that, that bit of work that was created throughout my mid 20s. And I've continued to improve, so you can call it growth, you can call person development, whatever. I'll just call it improvement for the sake of this, and wanting to improve, wanting to get better, not to get perfect, but to become better than what I was yesterday, and whatever that creative endeavor is. So podcasting was a low hanging fruit, because we weren't, we were pretty bad at it at first. We were good at answer questions, and we had done a lot of interviews, but when you become a broadcaster, I was just talking to backs about this the other day. Like, there are some people who are really great public speakers, and it doesn't translate well to podcasting, because podcasting is a type of broadcasting, and you need to have broadcasting jobs, and you turn these microphones on, and it becomes a totally different thing. And it's not as solitary as writing. It requires this more direct one-on-one experience. It's still communicative to an audience, but it's different. I want to get better at something like that. More on tour, getting better at public speaking, as one thing that terrifying me for the longest time, and it doesn't anymore, but it was about getting better at that. The other thing that drives me as service, like being able to contribute to other people, and whether that's through our books, or website, or podcasts, or the live events, it's about finding a way to contribute to other people. I think it almost sounds like a trueism that giving is living, but when you find the ways to contribute to other people, you know, we're doing some stuff with the hurricane relief efforts, and Houston, and then also donating personally to the Puerto Rico stuff, and then what's going on in Vegas, we're trying to set up an event for that with everything that happened with the shooting, the mass shooting, and Vegas, find ways to contribute like that after tragedies, but also just trying to contribute to people in general, find ways to serve them and make their lives better, and we're able to do that through our message, and I'm grateful for that. Yeah, I'll say, in the corporate world, the one thing I loved about my job, it was the mentoring. It was taking that employee who was getting ready to get fired, and then helping them turn it around to where three months later, they were getting employee of the month, like helping someone to make a significant change in their lives, like that is the one thing I absolutely loved, and that is pretty much my job now, really. I'm really impressed with what you guys have been able to do in the consistency of delivering an amazing and beautiful message of simple living and inspiring others to live more meaningful lives. And I'm curious if you look back, is there one skill that you guys have developed and locked in on that you think you've been able to cultivate in a way that others have been? I don't really look in the mirror and see any skill that I have that is above and beyond what anyone else has, and that's good news, because I'm looking in the mirror and I'm going, if I can do it, anyone can do it. I think if there's anything that a tip that I could give any entrepreneur out there, it would be surround yourself with people who you want to be like. When I think about the people that I spend most of my time with, they are people who when I look at their life, I'm like, man, that's a really good life, and that person is really smart at this, they're really good at and there's some way that I look up to them and don't necessarily want to be them, but there is an aspect to where I totally look up to them. And vice versa, it's like, I don't just, you know, I'm not just a suck you best with all my friends, like I will try to add as much value as much value as possible just so that I'm not just taking from these relationships. But I got to tell you, man, like looking at my 25 year old self, I can't tell you how many people are hung out with, and there's no way in hell I would ever want to live their life. And like thinking back, I'm like, why would I ever hang out with, if I'm hanging out with someone and I'm looking at them and thinking, this is a life I never want to live, your life looks miserable. Like why would I invest time into developing a long-term friendship with that person? Not saying that I should treat that person poorly, but in order to help myself grow to get better at whatever skills, I've got to surround myself with people who have the skills that I want to emulate and I look up to in a certain way that helps me to grow. But ultimately, man, for you or anyone else out there, like, if I can do it, you can do it. All right, on that note, thank you guys so much for being on the podcast. Thanks for having fun. Man, it's really has been a dream come true for you. Yeah, it really has. This is going to go in my memoir. This is going to be a page wine. But I'm going to make sure to cut out the first two paragraphs. Um, yes. Yeah, it wants again. Thanks again for coming on. One last thing I do with every guest, where should people go to connect with you? Well, we're on tour right now. So if you want to come see us in Australia and New Zealand, we just announced that less is now.com is the tour page that I'm in most.com is always the best place to find our books, podcasts, essays, and Instagrams, Twitters, all that fun stuff. You're Jack, are we on you, Jack? You're Jack still a thing? I'm a good dude. I don't even know what you're geeky. I guess I just hear people say it in the night. I say it anyway. All right, guys, thank you. All right, thanks man. Thanks for listening to the ground up show. If you like this podcast, there's something you can do right now to help. Head on over to iTunes and leave a quick review. I print out every single one and I put them up on my mood board above my bed. Okay, that's not true. But I still notice and appreciate everyone. For more on the ground up show, including behind the scenes videos, check out groundupshow.com. Thanks for listening.
