# Ground Up 050 - AMA 03
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XBpvoM2q1sw
More stuff from the podcast: http://groundupshow.com
Behind-the-scenes: http://instagram.com/mattdavella

Woo! Episode 50. Let's celebrate with an AMA & Ask Matt Anything. On this episode I answer questions from podcast listeners all over the world. Thanks for sending them in! If I didn't get to your question this time around (and ya'll like this) then I'll try to get to you on the next one.

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** the ground up show, ground up, 
**Date:** 2018-03-14

## Transcript
 All right, all right, today is an AMA episode. It's the third AMA episode that I've done so far on this podcast. And it's been growing each time. I think the first time I did this, I got like eight questions, five questions. Not very many. So the podcast has been growing. I got a lot of amazing questions. I'm going to do my very best to get to all of them. I'm going to cap this podcast episode around an hour in. So you don't just hear me blabbering on and on. I got my phone on airplane mode and I'm ready to go. So this time we had questions from all over the world. Questions from Kenya to Wisconsin to Poland and Canada. It was amazing to hear from so many diverse voices. But then also to see the overlapping themes and the things that you're struggling with. It kind of, it's the same things that I struggled with growing up. Some things that I'm still trying to figure out and learn myself. So we'll see if we can't answer these these questions together. To give you a little bit of a preview. Here are some of the questions that we're working with on this episode. People asked, when did you get into filmmaking? What does my workout routine look like? What's my strategy for creating meaningful YouTube videos? What items can't I live without? Why have it Natalie and I got and married yet? That's a little personal. I guess I asked for a personal question. So it totally cool. No offense taken there. And somebody asked me about my workout routine. Did I say that already? I don't know. I guess I just really want to talk about my workout routine. I might have said it twice. But anyway, I think this is going to be a good one. Let's do this like little intro roll. You know, the hi my name. My name is Matthew Vell. I'm the filmmaker behind minimalism. And then after that we'll get into the AMA here. Let's do it. You're listening to the ground up show. A podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passion. My name is Matthew Vell. And I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process. The lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. Hey, I'm A. Let's do it. Here we are. First question is a video. It's from Sean Lee. Hey, my name is Sean. I would consider myself a filmmaker and youtuber just like yourself. And I was really inspired about how you got out of debt completely. And for years, 100 grand that's just insane. One point that you made in that video though is that you have to make more money to pay this debt. So in my efforts to do the same, my question for you is, how do you market yourself as a freelance filmmaker to make some additional money while trying to maintain a full-time job to pay the bills? And a second question if I can. Do you mind talking about your Sony picture profiles as well as your color grading process? Your videos always look great and I just want to know how you achieve that. Thanks. Take care. Thank you. So I'm going to go with the low-hang and fruit there. The color grading stuff. One thing to mention is that it's always evolving. It's always changing. I might look back in my videos and actually not like them in a year. I don't like the colors on them. So I think our tastes evolve and change over time. So I think it's totally fine to be okay with that. I personally use a lot first. So I got a couple from color grading central. I think it's color grading central.com. They sell luts there and I think it's like a Fuji film. There's a bunch of them and I just went through each of them and found which one I liked. I usually put like a 65 to 70% blend on it. So it's almost like too much if it's 100%. And then I'll just tweak with regular contrast. My dark shadows, my darks and my whites to kind of bring it into a point that I like. So that's just a real kind of simple. I'll probably do a video later on really getting into detail about that. But to answer your main question. I think you have to try to find a way to make filmmaking your full time job. And you may not actually be making a lot of money at it in the very beginning and likely you won't. I remember my first year I was in college. I was kind of lucky that I had that backdrop to start. I think I made like $8,000. Now most people, unless you're living with your parents, most people can't survive off of $8,000 a year. So you can do it in your spare time. I would say try to do weddings. They help because they're usually on the weekends. If you can start doing that, if you can build up to a point where you're starting to make money, there's going to be that point though where you need to make a leap. Where you need to say, all right, I need to actually jump ship. And I can't, you know, simultaneously do this full time job as well as try to be a full time creative. Because it's just going to be the way too much. But I would say take whatever jobs you can in the beginning, say yes to everything. Do weddings, bar mitzvas, whatever it takes to be able to dedicate yourself to it. Because you're going to be building up your craft. But then obviously don't neglect the business side of things and actually that the making money. Because that's what's going to get you to be able to do that full time. So I would say, read up and really dedicate yourself to honing both of those elements. Both the creative and then actually the business side of it. So I've got some homework for you. One of the books that really helped to inspire me early on when I first got started out was the art of non-conformity by Chris Gilabou. Chris Gilabou, amazing author and entrepreneur. He's traveled to every country on the planet. He's a world traveler. He is super inspiring and he's never really taken that traditional path. So reading his book kind of, it gave me this sense of, oh, I can do this. Like there are other people out there that we're able to make this work. And like I said, it might be tough in the beginning. It might be more challenging. It's going to be more challenging in the very beginning than it will be at any other point in the process. I could say I worked harder. I put in more hours very early on. I took jobs that were 100 to $400 per project where I was making nothing on my hourly rate. But I was able to build up my craft. I was able to keep working. And also don't overlook the personability element. Like people are hiring you, not just based on your skill, but what else do you bring to the table? Are you a joy to work with? Do people really want to actually collaborate with you? Those things are really important. And it sounds like you have a really great personality and you're a really easy-going person. So I think if you can bring that through, then that will help those people. Those first clients spread the word and talk about you and say, oh man, you got a higher shot. Like, you know, he makes the greatest video. And he's amazing to work with. Let's get to the next question here. This is from Jason. Jim Voila. I was wondering what kind of filmmaking or video production experience you had prior to making minimalism. From the look of your kit, by the way, if you don't know, minimalism is a documentary. I made a Netflix doc. So from your kit and the look of your film, I'm assuming you had some real experience. I don't know too many hobbyists that have a Canon C series camera and L glass sitting around. Those are the lenses that I use. Apologies, if you've answered this one already, I've watched your making minimalism series and heard a handful of podcast episodes. But haven't heard. Haven't heard you come across this one yet, Jason. So I've, no, I've been a filmmaker for pretty much my entire life, you know, in various forms. So I first took an interest. Making horror films with my older brother and sister and my cousin. We would make these really corny, bloody thrashers with my parents VHS tape. And that was kind of my first introduction. It was just so exciting. It was so fun. And just the creating of it was just it just came naturally to me. But, you know, it wasn't like hit the ground running. And then I started, you know, shooting weddings when I was 12. I just never stopped tinkering. Like it was always there. It was always an interest that I had. And even throughout high school, like high school. I had, I was in the film and TV classes that they had there at the editing classes. There was like maybe four or five of them. I was very fortunate to have a school that had a really great video program. We had, I think it was like 13 computers with Mac Pros. So I got, I got to learn Final Cut 7 while I was still in high school. And the videos that I was making at the time, they were, they were like, they were just like gag videos. I was just trying to make my friends laugh. I was trying to make me laugh. I was trying to make my teacher laugh. I just found joy and actually creating and, and bringing my personality into the videos. So that's kind of how it started out. And then, you know, in college, I was like, what am I going to do? Like the only thing I like is video. The only thing that I'm really drawn to is filmmaking. So it was kind of a no-brainer. And then I just kept it up. But it was, I think the biggest thing was that I didn't do it. I didn't just do it during classes or whatever was on the syllabus. That's when I did the video editing. I actually stuck through and, and I, I put in the time outside of class. I saved up money working at a grocery store to buy a professional camera to, buy a MacBook Pro to buy Final Cut. Okay, I'm pretty sure I stole Final Cut when I was in college. But you get the point. I really invested in myself. And I invested primarily my time into learning this crap because I loved it. And so, you know, eventually it just, it just grew from there to the point where I was doing freelance work. Worked with a lot of clients. And then, made enough money that I felt comfortable, stepping away from the client work for a little while to say, hey, I got a story. I want to tell about minimalism and simple living. I want to get into it. So yeah, I had some gear. I wasn't just a hobbyist. I was definitely a professional filmmaker heading into this film. Do, do, do, do. Let's see here. Question from Kevin Fisher. Hey, Matt, I was wondering if you had any advice for carving out time and space to do creative work. In a shared apartment. I share a small, one bedroom apartment with my partner and my desk is just in a corner in the living room. I often find that I can't focus if my partner is in the same room. Even if she is not bothering me and doing her own thing on the couch. And she's just doing her own thing on the couch. I'm considering just waiting until she goes to bed, but then my sleep would likely suffer. Yeah, that sounds like a terrible idea. Have you dealt with similar challenges trying to get work done in your apartment? Not, I haven't personally dealt with those kind of challenges because most of the time I work from home. Sometimes I work from an office space, but generally I do a lot of my work in my editing from home. And Natalie, she works from her office. So I do wake up early. I try to get my work done early, so then we can spend time together afterwards. It's always kind of, I don't want to create that friction where I'm working and she kind of wants to talk about her day. So I try to make that space so we can have that time together. Even if we're not doing something actively together, it's just nice to separate the two. Though I've been in that situation before, I actually live with my sister recently, right after I graduated college for about four or five months. And we were both creatives, entrepreneurs, doing our own thing, both working from home. And it was really challenging to just be there in that same environment all the time. So my saving grace, we're noise canceling headphones. And the same as I had headphones that I have on right now. They were, they helped because it just, first of all, even if they're not even on, it's just a, people know, oh, Matt's working. Matt's doing his thing. He's got his headphones on. I shouldn't bother him. And sometimes I'll be working too. Like there are times obviously when I'm working and Natalie's home, sometimes I work on the weekends. And I'll kind of hear her saying something. I can ignore her if I want, sometimes I say, what would you say? And you know, pulling back one of my ears. But she's like, oh, no, totally fine, not important. Because I think when you're in the same room as somebody, there's a tendency to just say something when you otherwise would just be alone with your, in your own thoughts. So that's one thing that's helped me. I think if you're probably start with a conversation between you and your partner. You should just talk about what you're trying to do creatively. If you can't find time to do it during, in the early morning or during your work hours, then I think it's a conversation to say, hey, like, you know, I really want to focus on these things. Can you go in the bedroom and leave me alone at my desk? So I can do some work. I think there's a lot of ways that you can get around it, but headphones certainly helped me. All right, so we have a question here from June. What was the motivation behind starting the podcast? And I thought to myself, this was shortly after making minimalism, I thought to myself, what would I do if I had all the money in the world? If money wasn't even a question, what would I create? It's hard to think from that perspective because so much of the time, our decisions are based around money. We have bills, we have rent to pay, we have expenses to cover. But I really put myself in that position and I said, you know, if I made all the money in the world, if I had all the money right now, what would I be doing with my life? And it may sound trivial to say, oh, it was making a podcast, but it was, I wanted to create my own original work. And a podcast was definitely the one form, and the one medium that I was attracted to pursuing. So I decided to do it to make that transition. And it was scary. It was really scary in the beginning. I remember having conversations with Natalie where I was like, it was like, you know, just a week into having this idea. Like, I think I'm going to start a podcast. I just don't know. I was feeling so much doubt. I was truly nervous to put my work out there because I had this fear of failure, of looking like an idiot, of not knowing what I was doing. And, but I, I, Natalie was just like, you got to do it. You just got to start putting your stuff out there, like you know the right path. So having her there to support me was super helpful. I think it was also just following all this advice that I've gotten over all the years and all the books that I've read about just start, just go, just get into it. It's the same advice that I followed early on when I was a filmmaker. This is because I was now putting my voice out there and my person to be likely criticized. What I found out was that nobody gave a shit. Nobody cared. Nobody was even listening. In the beginning, nobody was even there to criticize me, which was great. Because then I just built confidence with each one and I was able to learn with such a low bar. There was such a low bar that I, you know, I didn't have this pressure of like thousands and thousands of people listening to me. I would just wanted to create something that I enjoy, that maybe my friends would like, and maybe an audience of 50 people would enjoy and then go from there. So that's kind of, that was my motivation to get into it. And it's been amazing to see it grow and to hear from you guys and to now do this podcast AMA where I'm getting people asking questions from all over the world. Like do you know how much of a trip that is? And when I see these videos of you guys sending in questions and you know, it's very personal to me and it means the world. And I'm just so glad I started and I'm so glad that I stuck through with it. And we got a question from Lee and where did you in your, where did you in your girlfriend meet? You're an adorable couple. Thank you so much, Lee Anne, from Wisconsin. It's very nice of you to say. Question on, oh, so I didn't even answer it. Where did you in your girlfriend meet? We met on Tinder. That's right. We met on Tinder. It was love at first swipe, I like to say. And yeah, I mean, like she was from Australia. She was, she had been living in New York City for about. Two months, maybe three months. And then we met and, you know, just kind of went from there. It was just, we had that instant connection and chemistry. And we just said, all right, this is, you know, it was pretty serious. It got pretty serious pretty quick. Because we were like, she only was planning on being there for a year. So we were like, all right, well, you know, we're going to have to talk about our future. And where this is going. And she, you know, it was nerve wracking for me. I'm sure for her as well. But I was like, I didn't know if she was going to stay. And that was kind of the hardest part. But, you know, it didn't take long before we realized that this was something that it was worth working for and working on. She's got a, Leon's got a question here about minimalism. I've paired down my belongings over the years, but I am not finished yet. I'm working through the final items that I kept because I should keep them. Whether it's family items from relatives that have passed down, or books that I think I should read. How do you push through the final 20% of stuff and get to a point where you're happy with a few items left in a category? I'm trying to find the motivation to finish. I find, for me personally, like, I always have at least five to 10% things in my house, or things that I own that I just don't use. Because our lives are always changing. So, like, I have these boots that were at a lot of value when I was in New York and throughout the winter as I would wear them very frequently and, like, big fix socks. And, you know, now I still have those things and I'm like, well, am I going to need those boots when I go home for the winter? If we take a trip somewhere, might be worth holding onto. So, I think it's fine to have a few things and, you know, five to 10% of things that you, or 20% as you said, that you don't actually use. I don't think that's a big deal because for most people with the opposite. Most people have 80% of the stuff in their house. They don't use, they don't touch, they never look at it and they don't realize it is even there. They forgot they even had it. So, I think that you're on the right track. And I wouldn't get too stressed out or anxious about the stuff. The whole point is to move past the stuff, right? It's to not let the stuff be, you know, a point of your discontent. So, if the stuff is causing an anxiety and stress that you, you kind of want to get down to the point where you just use only what you own. And I think you're kind of missing the point. The point is, look past the stuff, focus on the experiences of relationships in your life, focus on finding work that you're passionate about, a life that you're passionate about. And then, the 20%, 20%, it's not a big deal that is just in a closet somewhere. This is Casia from Poland. Hi, Matt. I was wondering if you had any advice on introducing the value of minimalism and its benefits to your very non-minimals, family. Thank you. How do you introduce the benefits of minimalism to your very not minimalist family? I feel my family is pretty minimalist being that it's just Natalie and myself, it's just the two of us. But, you know, I think the main thing here is that you can only show them how it helps you, but everybody's different. Natalie has seen that minimalism helps me and it adds value to my life. And she still chooses not to become a minimalist. And I'm not going to try to brainwash her or try to manipulate her or try to figure out a way that I could otherwise trick her into becoming a minimalist because I love her for who she is. I accept her for who she is as a non-minimalist, which is totally cool. But I think it comes down to the fact that we both have that mutual respect for each other. And our own personal lives and lifestyles that we're able to make it work. One of the biggest things in terms of letting go is actually letting go of control and letting go of this desire to want to kind of change the people that are around you. So if you can let go of that, that's probably definitely a step in the right direction. We've got a question here from Hitten Mystery, which is the greatest name that I've seen yet on this podcast. Hitten says, I'm currently a senior at the University of San Francisco, and I hope to one day help others through going into the field of medicine. I'm currently in a stressful process of finding work, post graduation, and studying for my medical test. One thing that I continue to struggle with due to stress is maintaining a work-life balance. School seems to stress me out, and this causes a cascade of binging and over-consumption that I feel has taken over, not only my personal life, but as well as my relationship to both my family and friends. I seem to lose sight in what I think is really valuable and important to my life, and while being, so my question to you is, how do you maintain a good work-life balance? If you could touch on this, that would be awesome. Nonetheless, look forward to hearing the podcast. So I think it's okay to be unbalanced every once in a while, sometimes we're more aligned than others, but I think you have to first get straight with who you are, what your values are, so you have that kind of center point. So if you do come out of balance, if maybe you're not going to the gym as much as you would like, and you want to come back to going to the gym, then you can kind of pull yourself into alignment. But you have to know where your center is, so when you go off course, you can come back, and just be okay with it, you know, be okay with not being perfect, be okay that, you know, today you may have things completely under control and you're stressed free, and tomorrow something happens that you can't control, and maybe you get a little bit stressed out. I think that's okay, but in the long run, you want to be able to look back and say, okay, I think I spent enough time this month with my family and friends on my school work, on my personal relationship, on my passions and my hobbies. I think if you can do that, then that's a pretty damn good way to live. Okay, so this is a question here from Courtney. How do you suggest someone who's newly living on their own to discuss minimalist values with their roommates and family? I was personally unable to have my family understand where I was coming from when they were trying to help me set up my apartment by both giving me and buying me things that I didn't need, and I still haven't used that now, they won't let me get rid of this Courtney from Canada, from Newfoundland. That's funny, I think the one thing is that, I mean, people can't make you keep stuff. Like if you want to get rid of this stuff, you can definitely get rid of it, especially if those people aren't living with you. I think it sometimes can be uncomfortable to say no, and sometimes it's harder to say no, and to turn things down than it is to say, yeah, it's very easy to say yes, except things into our life, and that's what we all do, which is, you know, like that free t-shirt can and gun that they shoot out at a half time and basketball games, people go crazy over free shit, everybody wants free stuff. So it's just kind of people find a kind of strange and weird when you were like, hmm, nah, I don't really want this stuff, I'm good, thanks. I think generally, if you don't have to have the conversation, then you don't have to have it, like if I think my favorite vegans are the ones that I find out they're vegan after a year or two years of knowing them, I'm like, I didn't know that, like it comes up when you go out to eat, and sometimes it will naturally come up into conversation, but for the most part, these are just ideas and values that you hold and a way that you live, that yeah, people might take notice and ask questions, but I think generally, you don't have to be the first one to bring it up. Although when it does come up, they're interesting conversations to have, and I think that's one of the reasons that minimalism did well, and it resonated was because half of the people that watch it probably didn't like it, half of the people were like, hmm, no, not for me, if not more, minimalism, not really for me, but then it kind of creates that discussion and that debate about these things and the things that we bring into our life. So yeah, if somebody wants to give you something and you don't want it, you can accept it, thanks, and then you can always give it away later. I have done that myself, I haven't, if you're listening to this podcast and you've given me something, I totally still have it. What have we got here? We've got a video here from Parker Thompson. Hey Matt, my name is Parker, and I'm new to filmmaking, but I've been a minimalist for a number of years now, and I've been using YouTube a lot to learn about filmmaking, and as I find content to, sometimes I get frustrated when I surf through clickbait content or just stuff that's watered down, and watching your videos, I really find that there's a value first that I feel like that is your top priority, and I really, really appreciate it, and as a filmmaker, now I'm also getting interested in starting my own YouTube channel. So my question for you is, what's your validation process when you make content for YouTube? How do you decide what's valuable? Thanks, Matt. Great question, I think that's gonna be my new slogan, value first. Matt Diavella, value first. That's a great question, Parker. I love it kind of gets down to, I think I want to get into my creative process here, and how I go about choosing the videos that I want to make from my channel. YouTube has definitely been the, I've seen the biggest growth from by far out of anything. It's just kind of taken off lately, and I think it does come down to the process and how I go about actually creating the videos, and the actual content that I'm creating. So I get ideas randomly. These ideas, it's like, you know, pop into your head, you watch something, you see something, or maybe I've had this idea brewing for a long period of time, and I'll write that idea down when it comes into my head. I've got this page just filled up with all these video ideas, and then I will go through that list, and I pick out the ones that are most exciting to me, like which ones to me seem like the most interesting or the most exciting, the ones that I really want to create, and then I'll think about that video, and I'll think about how can I make this interesting? How can I make this entertaining? How can I, you know, bring the value out of this? Like, what do I really want to get across? I made a video called The New Normal, and it was simply about hedonic adaptation, which is this idea that when we buy something new, our expectations and our desires will rise with it, or we get a raise and salary, our expectations and our desires, they rise along with that increase in status to the point where it actually doesn't make us happier in the long run. We come down to this level state of fulfillment and contentment. So like, there's definitely like a dry way to go about making that video. There's a way to just present the facts. I could just read a Wikipedia page about hedonic adaptation, and that's it. But I wanted to get a little bit creative. I mean, that's like the fun part of creating videos as well, is like, it's just this blank canvas that you can create, and you can put anything within it. And for me, I personally, you know, I think humor is one of the best ways to tell a story, or like just even being weird or a little bit kind of off beat. So for me, I was like, all right, what's like a weird thing that people might think about that might bring into their life. That's like, seems so mundane and so boring, but when you're thinking about buying it, you're like, you think about all these reasons why it may help improve your life and it may change your life. So I opened up the video talking about this toaster, and how you're like, well, I mean, it's got four slots, in case you want to toast four slices of bread. I'm laughing now because I talked to my brother after he watched that video. And he's like, dude, I've got the same toaster. We were thinking about pairing down and getting a small toaster, because who needs four to be able to toast four slices of bread at once? This is massive. It takes up so much room. But anyway, it was like this idea of kind of going through and talking about that, making it playful, being like, this toaster is going to change your fucking life. And then also, yeah, being a little bit edgy to, not being afraid to curse, just being yourself. And letting that actual story come out. But obviously, like, so I do, I've been trying to put humor into every video I do and be a little bit weird or a little bit funny or cracked jokes, whatever it is. Because one that's just kind of a part of my personality and who I am and that I really enjoy adding those into the video. But I think it's just about creating great content. Like, value, a lot of times people can get caught up in value and say, oh, you know, add value. Add value to people's lives. Just focus on adding value. Value isn't just like, numbers or like, here is a thing I learned. Here's a fact that I know that you now know. Value is like entertainment. It's funny. It's not like Parker was saying. It's like sometimes you watch these videos and it's clickbait. But then, you know, that's one thing. But then when you actually click on it, it's just the message doesn't deliver. It doesn't make you feel good afterwards. You don't feel like, oh my god, I need to find out who this person was that made this. I think when you take pride in what you do and your passion and about your work and you really want to actually give people either a good time, make them laugh, create something that gets them to think a little bit deeper. Those are all different ways that you can add value to somebody else's life through YouTube videos. So Parker, good luck with your YouTube channel and the videos that you're making. Really appreciate you sending that question in. Adrian says, dude, you're amazing. Thank you. I appreciate that. As a professional photographer, I often find myself going down a rabbit hole of blogs, tutorials, videos, Pinterest, inspiration, interviews, email, newsletters, et cetera. Well, you're welcome for just adding on to the pile. The list is endless. They're generally great resources. My Safari browser window is usually about 15 tabs open at any given time, so unminimal of me. I really struggle to prioritize and stay focused on what really matters. I feel myself getting pulled in every direction and losing sight of what matters most. My question is, have you ever experienced this? And if so, how do you deal with this barrage of information? When I first started out, I felt like that's what my life was like. I was just drowning in content. But I think there comes a point when you can only read so many books about entrepreneurship before you decide I'm going to start a business. Reading these books and these other resources on it are exciting and they really give you a boost of energy when you're reading them. And I think they're actually really important for helping to give you guidelines for the direction in which you should be heading. As long as you're finding resources that are positive and have the right moral grounding in them. But eventually you're going to learn so much more by actually getting started and doing the work and actually taking photos and creating an art gallery or whatever it is if you're a photographer. But it's definitely like the don't lose sight of the actual creation. And that's one thing now lately, I spend way more time creating than I do consuming. And I think I probably should spend a little bit more time consuming and listening to podcasts and kind of relaxing because I do love my work and I do work a lot. I put a lot of time and a lot of energy into this stuff. So that's just I've kind of tip the scale and the other direction there where like I said previously, it's about balance and kind of finding what fits for you. But if you're not creating enough, then that's probably going to be your biggest area of growth. It's not going to be going through all those 15 tabs on your Safari browser. Next question. Methility. Levy. How do you find your purpose? I can't think out of the box, but I know the safe path, college and the typical nine to five job and it's not for me. How do you find your passion? How do you find what you want to do? I think that probably comes down to like, how do you find your passion? And how do you turn that into something or you can make money from? I think you should probably start with interests. Start with what do you enjoy doing? What do you like doing? And then think to yourself, as anybody made money doing this. This is my friend, Josh, Josh, you will feel it's milburn from the minimalist gave this advice. So it's like, has anybody ever made money as a writer before? Has anybody ever made a living as a filmmaker or a photographer? Do I like those things? Or can I take an interest in them and learn how to create? Do I like that process? If so, then you could turn that passion into a business and you can actually make money from it. Sometimes it's just an interest. Sometimes you just like these things. Maybe rock climbing. You know, some people can get sponsors and can be and turn it into a business. Maybe more challenging to do that than in another path. So that's definitely something to keep in mind. But if other people are doing it, chances are you can also do it yourself. Question from Connie. Why aren't you in Natalie married? What a good question. And very personal and invasive. Now it's not a big, I don't really care. We are not married yet. We've been dating for three years. So we haven't been dating for that long. But we've talked about our future. We've talked about marriage and we do have plans to get engaged. So stay tuned for that one. But that's not yet. Pascal. So when is Casey nice stat going to be on the podcast? Much love Pascal. That's a great question. I would love to get Casey nice stat on the podcast. I don't know Casey nice stat personally. So if you guys know Casey nice stat, feel free to put in a good word. We'll see. I mean, yeah. As this thing grows, as the podcast grows, more doors open, and people are more willing to come talk on your show. It's one of those things where like, you can't get everybody that you'd ever want when you only have certain amount of downloads per month. If I'm getting millions of downloads, then it's a little bit more interesting for people. If he's got a thing that he's put in now, and he wants to be doing a podcast run. I don't think he does a ton of interviews, but that's one of those things that would love to have him on if I could make it work. Maybe you guys should reach out. If you guys want to reach out to Casey nice stat, you know, go on Matt's podcast. He's a filmmaker that I like, and I think you'll like as well. So we'd love to get him on. Robert, hey there Matt, over the past few years, I've ventured into minimalism and becoming debt-free nearly there. My struggle is committing to things that I want to do. Guitar, writing, and outdoor activities. I've been married for over 30 years. Wow, congratulations. And we allow each other plenty of time alone to do such things. I'm sure you enjoy these other activities. Yes, opposites do attract one another. How do you commit to things that you enjoy that are not work-related, Robert? So it's right there in the question, you have to make the commitment. And I think of it like as an investment, and you know that you should be committed to investing, and you should put your money, and not all in one place. Don't put all your investments into one basket, because if you put it into say one company, then what happens if that company crashes? Your life is going to be much more volatile if you're putting everything you have into your work, and you're not spending any time with family and friends. You're not picking up hobbies or finding fun vacations to go on, because when work's not going well, life's not going well, and everything is going to become affected by it. So, yeah, try to find those hobbies, just know how important it is. And for me, it was actually as funny as it is, I feel like it's lame seeing it, but it was picking up softball to me, was the time I picked it up, maybe four or five years ago, I grew up playing baseball. And for me, it was like, it was so much fun, because I wasn't trying to achieve something. I wasn't trying to get a certain amount of followers, or build a certain amount of growth in my business. It was never about the bottom line or about the outcome. It was about meeting new people, having fun, playing a game, having that teamwork and camaraderie. It was just so much fun and so enjoyable that it made me realize that, maybe I was spending a little bit too much time on work, not enough time on hobbies and other interests. So, got to make the commitment and just go for it. And we've got a question from Veronica. I think it's this one. Hi, Matt. It's Veronica here. Greetings from Poland. I wanted to say that I'm a huge fan of your podcast, and of course, the videos that you're making. For example, that's a fun fact. My friends used to love a lot hearing that the first thing I was on Netflix was the minimalism documentary. But anyways, onto the question, have you ever considered taking another path than filmmaking back to the high school times? And if not, do you have something you would like to try? Some not so rational kind of strange dream job? Okay, I guess. That's it. Good luck with your work. And of course, with your great plan of inviting the Rock to your podcast. I wish you the best. Goodbye. Alright, Veronica. Thank you for your question. And you support on trying to get the rock on my podcast. That's a good, it's a good point to talk about it. I, you guys know this. If you've been listening to the podcast, if you've listened to more than two episodes, I have this crazy ambitious goal to get doing the Rock Johnson on my podcast. And I will go to any lengths to make it happen. I've recently just finished watching every single one of his movies. It's 30 feature films. I binge watched them over a couple of months. I am training to, to take one day and eat the Rock's diet that he was training for during his movie Hercules, which is like Matt. I think it's like 11, 12 pounds of food in a day. Let's see if I can do that. But anyway, I'm trying to get him on the podcast. Just for so many reasons that I won't get into, but I find him incredibly inspiring. And I think that he would be able to add a lot of value to the show. So if you guys want to see the rock on my podcast, after like, I've been doing this for a year, trying to get him on, hasn't returned my phone calls. But I've been doing it for a year, and it just never stops being funny. Just this idea of me trying to get the rock on my podcast, because my podcast isn't that popular. It's not like it's the tonight show. It's not even close. It's not even close. It's not even like the audience of the live show of the tonight show. But maybe maybe maybe that. But anyway, if you want to help get the rock on my podcast, go to get the rock on Matt's podcast.com. There's a big gigantic tweet button that if you click the button, it'll automatically generate a tweet and send it to the rock. So that's the best that I've got so far. I'm just trying to come up with these creative ideas to get his attention. But anyway, Veronica, to get back to your original question, have you ever had any like dreams or big ambitions to do to have another career? And truth be told, growing up, I wanted to be a professional baseball player. I've never had a dream or big ambitions to do to have another career. And truth be told, growing up, I wanted to be a professional baseball player. That was my dream. And like literally even through high school, I thought that I might be able to make it happen. I wasn't that good. I wasn't that good in hindsight. But I was just always so passionate about baseball. I watched every Yankees game. So, you know, maybe there's something there. Maybe I could throw, oh, that would be cool, right? That would be cool dream to be able to throw out the first pitch in a Yankees game. I think I'm going to have to put that on my bucket list. I think I might have to do that. That would be amazing. David Vang. It's up David. What do we got to say here? I noticed that you keep your wardrobe very simple. Can you elaborate on what items you have? Also, I'm working on decluttering and simplifying my closet and wardrobe. What key tricks do you have? Much appreciated. David. So, at this point, I recorded this a little bit early, but at this point last Friday, I would have released a video called My Minimalist Wardrobe. If all goes according to plan and nothing got in the way of me making that video, but the whole idea around it is just kind of going through my wardrobe and talking about what I own. The tricks that I've learned is I've got one pair of good pants, one pair of jeans that I wear pretty much every day. I have about 20, more than 20 pairs of the same shirt. This shirt, I've got it in this color as well. If you're listening to the podcast, it's like a dark charcoal and then a gray and I've got half and half. And that's the only t-shirt that I wear 99% of the time. If I go out to a fancy dinner with Natalie or just like, I want to dress up for something. I got like two or three button ups that I wore for that. So, I keep things very simple. I find a brand or a company that fits me well. Fit is so important and comfort. And then I just, that's all I do. That's all I get. So, if I need to get more shirts or my shirts wear out I get like some gross sweat stains on them, which happens. Then I'll just kind of get the same one that I got before. So, that's that's the trick that I have to keep in it simple. Also not giving a shit what people think about what you're wearing. You know, if you're happy with it, if you feel comfortable in it, then you know, wear a panda ones. You know, I don't care. Ennis Costa. I hope you've never talked about this, but I only started to watch your videos a few days ago. I would like to know if you have any tips for people who are living with their parents, but would like to be minimalist. I'm only 16 years old, so I'm still dependent on my parents. However, I want to be a minimalist, even if I can't in all aspects of my life. I hope you choose this question. I find myself learning something new in every video you post. Congrats on your work. I am Portuguese. So, Ennis from Portugal. Thank you so much. I started out as a minimalist living with my parents as well. I was independent at the time. I guess I wasn't independent if I was living in my parents' basement, but I was making money for myself and I had a career in the works. So, the advice I would say is, the good thing is that if you wanted to be a maximalist, if you wanted to own a bunch of shit or have this crazy, ambitious lifestyle, that would be much harder if you were dependent. Because then you'd be asking your parents for 20 bucks every time you went to the mall. But since you're talking about a life with less and being more intentional with the things you own, you can get rid of some stuff that you don't like and you don't have and you can be more mindful. Your bedroom is yours to add or remove stuff as you see fit. I think for the most part, unless your parents are really controlling. But yeah, I think that there's a lot there. Jack's got a question. Jack Bella, that is. I'm sorry for my bad English. I'm an Italian guy. Me too. I'm all of garden Italian though. I'm not Italian Italian, so he probably makes better pasta than me. I find your YouTube channel only a week ago, and I am just in love. I find your content very inspiring. It's now a year that I found the name of what I felt inside of me, minimalism, I'm still in the process of embracing it. So my question is, what's your bare items that you can't live without? Like a minimalist list. Thanks for the opportunity. Keep going. You are marvelous work. Thanks. Jack. Jack, come on. Okay, Jack. What do I got for you? Uh, okay. I got items that I can't live without. My glasses. I'm not like I can see without my glasses. But I can't drive without them. It's just very hard to see in the distance. But I remember the first time that I put on my glasses. This was probably two years ago, three years ago. And I was on my rooftop at the time in Hoboken, and saw a view of Manhattan. And it was unbelievable. It was like, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't see those like audio things where people hear for the first time. It's not the same at all. That's they're like crying and stuff. But in a way, I got very emotional because I was like, wow. I didn't even realize it. But like, I haven't been seeing in full resolution for, I don't know how long for probably years. It just kind of crept up on me. That was really special. And then other things I can't live without a camera. You know, that's how I live. And that's how I fulfill my passion. So, you know, obviously there's like a thousand different accessories from a camera, but I would just boil down to a camera. And headphones are pretty important to me as well. It's kind of like my escape when I put on headphones. I can get to work or I can be on a flight and ignore the loud babies crying. Question from Ben Riddle. We're almost done here. We've got a couple more questions left. I'm at a twist on your question for your guests. It's the end of the world. What do you listen to? What do you watch? What do you read? I have this question on the podcast that I always ask. My guest, which is what one thing should people read? Watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight. So for me, I mean, it's kind of tough. It's like the world's coming to an end. It's like doesn't matter does it? But all entertain this question, Ben. One thing to watch. The greatest speech ever made. It's a Charlie Chaplin, like YouTube video. It's based on one of his films. It's just so beautiful, so poetic. And I always get inspired when I watch it. So I'd watch that. If I'd read one thing, it would be a crime novel by a Michael Connelly. I don't read a ton. But like ever since college, I would occasionally read these Michael Connelly novels. And they just helped me to kind of escape. And I think if that world was ending imminently, I would want to escape into a good book. And if I could listen to one thing, it would be Frank Sinatra's come fly away. I'm a Jersey boy. So you know, you've got to represent Frank Sinatra. I used to live right around the corner from where he was born in Hoboken. You know, I don't listen to Frank Sinatra all the time. But like that would be such a dope song to go out on. Like if there's meters crashing down to earth and exploding in cities all around the world. And then you have like Frank Sinatra's come fly away. I feel like that would be the way to do it. I always got one more question here. If you could do a show where you had four guests on at the same time, like a talk show I suppose, who would your top four be? The rock can't be an option. You know, you're really strong arm in me there. Ben from the UK. I can't have the rock on. I would have picked the rock four times. No, but I don't know. It's kind of hard because I'm not really, I can't like, I don't know. I can't really think of like four people. I can't think of four people that would be more fun and more enjoyable for me to do a podcast episode and it would be with my close friends from, from back home. So that's what I would go with because you know, there's nothing like those friends that you grew up with, that you're tight with, that you're kind of, you're, I feel like your personalities have been molded around and you guys helped. We're in the, you know, those, those really early stages of life when you're developing and learning about the world and high school and college. To be able to sit down with with four, three or four close friends, I feel it would be for me the most enjoyable. I would enjoy it as much as like, bringing on a celebrity or stars or whatever because, I don't know. First of all, I just be nervous. You know, if you had Kanye West in my apartment, that would be cool, but it would just, I would be uncomfortable. So if I really wanted to enjoy myself and I think would have the most fun conversation, that's, that's what I would go with. That's lame, right? That's a lame answer to that question. I would choose my friends, whatever. Whatever. Alicia, we got a video here. Hi, Matt. This is Alicia. First of all, thank you so much for responding to me on Instagram. I really appreciate it. Let's try and hold my phone still. But yeah, I want to get right into it. So basically a question that I have for you is just what advice would you give to someone like me who feels like they have a really, really good idea for a documentary and thinking about actually bringing it to fruition is like, I know that I could do it by myself, but I really wanted to be as best as it possibly can be. And I really think that my idea is worth something that would have a larger platform than what I could solely provide by myself. So like I would love to know even more in depth about like your journey, if you were to talk about that on your show, like how you started making films and doing things that I've listened to about two of your episodes. But just how you kind of got to where you are now and that was making the minimalism documentary and it was on Netflix and kind of like how all of that transpired and fell into place for you. That documentary actually inspired the idea that I have for a documentary that I would love to make one day. But I would love to just kind of hear some advice on that and like what you would recommend and what you maybe wish someone would have told you when you started making your documentary that's on Netflix now. So I'm at two minutes. I'm going to stop talking. Thank you. Bye. All right. There was a lot in that question. And I think the first thing I'll say is don't get too far ahead of yourself, right? You know, thinking about Netflix and distribution and where should it go and how to do it get on there and all this stuff. It's going to be different for everybody. I've heard from so many people who've gotten a film on Netflix or released it independently and they all took a little bit different paths, found different connections, had a distribution company that helped them but that's not going to help you at the very beginning. Right now, you're about to make a film where you have this idea for a film. Thinking about Netflix is going to be the worst thing for you to do and it's going to kind of corrupt your vision and exactly what you want to create. Because what's most important is to make the dopest thing you possibly can, a great film to make a great piece of art. Something that you are inspired by, that you are passionate about, that you can share with, that you know other people also get value from. That's step number one. Because if you can't do that, then it doesn't matter. If it's not good enough, if the piece of content is not good enough, if the film is not good enough, then you're not going to be able to get on Netflix and it's probably not going to help people. So step number one, make dope shit. I think it's hard, like you talk about getting a crew and finding a director and all these different things like you have an idea. You know, it's never just about the idea. The idea, sometimes it's like the most least important thing. I know ideas are important, obviously, but if you can't act on that idea, if you can't bring it to life, if you can't find a way to make it work, then obviously the idea doesn't exist, it doesn't really matter. So the execution is just as important. And the one thing that I found for me that's helped is that I was able to execute on everything myself. So Josh came to me with this idea for the documentary. It happened to be something that I had been toiling and thinking about. I knew I wanted to make a feature doc. Minimalism had impacted me. I actually had thought about doing something similar. So when he came to me, I was like, let's do it. That's great. I could shoot. I could edit. I could record audio. I could conduct the interviews. I could do all this stuff myself because I've been working over all these years to make it happen. Try not to go too big. You don't need a whole crew. I did minimalism entirely by myself. So you might actually just find one person. That's a great filmmaker that you can team up with to create something. So it's not always completely necessary that you have this big production to make something great to make something meaningful. You just have to be really creative. The film that I like to talk about and share people because it actually happened in a different way than me. That was my path is having the skill and executing and just going for it and making it all myself. Having years and years of experience as a filmmaker. Not a doc filmmaker, but just a filmmaker. And it's the guy who made living on one dollar. Chris Temple and Zach and Gracie. I had them on the podcast. They're great people. They're super inspiring. But they basically were in college and they had this idea to go down to Guatemala, shoot some footage. And see what it would be like to live on less than a dollar a day. So they have this documentary called Living On One Dollar. And they ended up getting it on Netflix. They turned it all this footage into a documentary and they ended up getting on Netflix. But they weren't filmmakers. They had no business. Honestly, they had no business. But they weren't that wasn't their craft. That wasn't their art. They had a couple of friends and people that they knew. They knew. Go down there with them and help them to shoot all this stuff and help them edit it. But they were able to make it work because they had this idea. And then they were able to execute on it to bring in these people who had the skills to make it happen. So for you, it's going to be probably finding the right partnerships, the right people to make this thing happen. Don't worry about starting small. Maybe it's a short film to start. Maybe you have like you create five minutes of whatever this idea is. Because I think if you can't create a five minute film, something that moves people that gets people to think about your concept and your idea pretty deep, it's probably not going to be a great idea to go out and try to make a 75 minute film about that. So like you make this short thing first, you can use that to help get interviews or maybe inspire other people to be a part of the project and then you can build from there. Start small and then eventually you can get to that point where you make the feature the feature dock and go big. Thank you for your question. Thank you guys for again being a part of this podcast. I appreciate your support, your help and your encouragement along the way. Hearing from you is just one of the greatest gifts of creating this podcast and to be able to answer some of your questions here. It means a lot to me that you would trust me and trust my advice and I hope I was able to give you a few pointers here. If you want to support this show, as you know, I don't do advertising, but you can leave a review on iTunes, I'll leave a rating over on iTunes, that helps. If you want to share one of these podcast episodes with a friend, that would help. And if you want to submit a question, submit your video where audio, keep in under two minutes, send it to hello at matdivella.com And I will get you in your voice on the podcast. All right guys, thanks so much for being a part of this and we will see you next week. I feel like I should have said I will see you next week. But I'm not going to see you next week. I feel like, wait, hold on a second, hold on a second, hold on a second, wait, I'm back and back and back and back and back and back and back and back and back and back I made a whole big deal about a stink about the workout routine question, I must have missed that along the way somewhere. Where is it? Work. Out. Yeah, missed it. I missed it. I missed a question. I probably missed other ones too. Sorry if I missed your question. I'm just, I'm so an organized right now. But I made this whole stink in this whole joke about the workout routine in the beginning and I didn't even answer that question. I did talk a little bit about working out. But I have a question from David McMullen. He said, a question. As a minimalist, what does your exercise regime look like? Are you a member at a gym or maybe crossfit? Do you exercise at home? How do you maintain it when you're on the road? Cheers. David. To answer that question, I would say. So my workout routine right now is I left usually four to six days a week. Sometimes I might only spend 15 to 20 minutes at the gym. Sometimes I'll spend an hour or so. I will occasionally hike. So when I get into the hiking, I'll do that three times. Maybe more per week, which is usually a couple miles per hike. And that's how I stay in shape. I think the hardest thing is really building that routine in the beginning. But then once you've got it built, it kind of takes care of itself. I find it harder to not go to the gym once I've built the routine. So that's kind of like the most contradictory advice that I give is that like if you're trying to build a workout routine. A lot of people tell you how important it is to rest and have those rest days. I kind of power through those in the beginning for the first couple weeks because I know if I just go to the gym more frequently. Once it sticks, then I can take a day off here and there. But I want to be able to kind of develop that. And also, like I've talked about this on the podcast before, but my one tip is always, I don't let myself skip two days in a row. So I'll only take one day off and then, you know, you can go every other day. But generally, if I take two days off, I'm less likely to get back into that routine and get going. And when I'm on the road to answer that question, I let myself not work out. I don't really stress about it. I don't work out much when I'm on the road. Sometimes I do, but I would say 90% of the time, 90% of the time, I do not work out from the road. So I take that break and then when I come back, I get back into my routine. And that's just how I do things. So yeah, that's it. Last question. I'm done. I'm out of here. See you guys next week. Bye.
