# Declutter Your Way to Clarity // Ground Up 067
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xen_Kx4sFlI
Aileen Xu (http://youtube.com/lavendaire) is a YouTuber, Lifestyle Blogger & Artist.

On this episode of The Ground Up Show we discuss...

1. Minimalism & how it might apply to your life.
2. Building a brand & business outside of YouTube.
3. And how to organize your weeks to be more productive.

If you’ve been enjoying the podcast leave a review on iTunes or share your favorite episode with a friend.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalism, minimalist, simple living, simplicity, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, 
**Date:** 2018-07-04

## Transcript
 Welcome back to the podcast. My name is Matt Diavella and you're listening to the ground-up show. Today I'm sitting down to chat with a very creative YouTuber lifestyle blogger and artist. Her name is Eileen shoe and online. She goes by the name Lavendaire We discuss minimalism and how it might apply to your life, how she got into it and really break down the benefits of minimalism. We talk about building a brand and business outside of YouTube, how to make a sustainable living and income online and how to organize your weeks to be more productive. Lots and lots of actionable steps to help you on your journey. Like I mentioned last week, I am in the middle of creating a course. It's about habit change. It's going to be a three-week course really diving deep and breaking down what it takes to build successful habits. The plan is that you will take this course with a habit in mind that you want to stick with and the course will help guide you along that process. So if you want to find out about when that course is available just go to matdavella.com slash newsletter. That's matdavella.com slash newsletter. If you're already signed up for the newsletter, you will get an update for when that becomes available. Enjoy this week's podcast. Our pads kind of crossed a little bit a couple of years ago when I reached out to you to use a clip in minimalism. I know. And you were super generous to let us use that. So it's really cool to kind of come full circle and have you on the podcast here to chat a little bit about your journey. Yeah, so you've been into minimalism for a while. When did you first hear about it? When did you first start taking interest in minimalism and simple living? Probably around 2014. So that was the first place I read about this term minimalism was from Blake McCowsky, the founder of Tom's and his book, started something that matters. I'm not sure if this was a name. Anyway, he talks about how he even though he's like the founder of this big company, he's actually a minimalist and he sold all his things and lives on a boat. So as reading that story, it was like a new concept to me. Because growing up, I was just I think in my household, my mom loved to like shop for sales and discounts. And we're the type of people that would just buy things if they were on sale. And because my mom's an immigrant, she went through the Vietnam War, came here as a refugee. I think because they lost everything back then, once she came here, they would keep everything. I have a tendency to hoard because they're like, oh, what if something bad happens again? But I was born in that kind of household where you would buy a lot of things, take a lot of free unnecessary things, and then just hoard it. And honestly, it was so the Blake McCowsky book got me thinking like, that's an interesting way to live. Why would anyone want to live like that? And then after that, I found out about the book, the life-changing magic of tidying up by Maria Kondo, and that book, after reading it, it's really convincing. I'm sure you've read it, right? I'm horrible minimalist. No, it's hard. It's like, once you get into the topic, like I've read a ton of books on minimalism and obviously devoured blog posts. So you're probably like over it by the time that book came out. Yeah, like at that point I had been maybe four or five years into it. All the, man, I got it. I should, I should do it, just because it's been such an influential book. It's such an influential book, and it defined minimalism in a very specific way. So I think I go with her definition of it, and her definition is keep only what sparks joy, and she has a very specific way of like how to declutter your life by category. So anyway, I read the book, and I actually like went through decluttering my life in all of her categories from like clothes, papers, and books, and miscellaneous stuff. And after decluttering, this was around 2015. I documented my journey on YouTube, and I really felt like before decluttering, I felt like I was very lost in life. I was cluttered, and then after the decluttering like whole journey, I really felt more clear. And I think that's what minimalism does. You feel like a weight has been lifted off your shoulders, and for some reason I was more motivated in life. And it might have been synonymous with some other things, but I feel like after minimalism, and all that journey, I feel like that's how my channel started taking off. It helps to kind of clarify your vision, and like you have to, in order to say, notice certain things, or to get rid of things, you have to realize what you're saying. Yes, too, which was like the spark joy element. Yeah, so, so that just, we resonated with you right away. You kind of hear this, and you're like, okay, how can I start to apply this to my own? Yeah, because the book is just very encouraging, and it, she literally convinces you like, this will change your life. And after you go through my process, like you don't have to tidy again, but so it was very convincing, and after I did it, it just, it changed my mindset, because I started to, because once you start decluttering your things, it really applies to all the other areas in life, because you learn to like keep only what sparks joy or makes you happy, and then push out what's not. So you can do that with your relationships with how you like manage your time. So I started to, I think, just subconsciously apply that into all other areas of my life to the point where you're literally like filtering through all the negativity, filtering through all the unnecessary, like clutter of your life, mental clutter, spiritual, emotional clutter, like doing that. So I think that's really what helped me, I don't know, cleanse and get a real restart. Right. Well, there's so much noise. There, whether it's, you know, TV or social media or the actual physical stuff in your house, there's so many influences on our lives that I think for a lot of people, they get, they gravitate towards minimalism to find some sense of control, because their lives feel like, oh, I'm not even making decisions anymore. True. How did your decision-making change once you started to, I don't do call yourself a minimalist or once you started living more, a more of a minimalist lifestyle. Yeah, I do. I do consider myself having a minimal mindset. And when you talk about decision-making, I think that's a key because before this whole mindset, I would listen to what other people had to say. I would take everyone's opinions. I originally, like, I'm a Libra, so I consider myself an indecisive person. So every life decision I would ask all my friends and family, like, what do you think? What should I do? And obviously, like, now that you're a mature, like, no one can answer those questions for you. Only you can. And I didn't know that. I didn't realize that before, but going, like, kind of adopting that mindset, the minimalism mindset, I started to realize, like, no, I am in control of what I want in my life. And what I don't have to listen to with this person says, I don't have to take your opinion into consideration. So it's like really learning to separate your voice. Because so during tomorrow, the first category you declutter is closed. And, you know, you separate your clothes like, do I want to keep this? Does this spark joy? And in the beginning, it's really hard to decide whether you want to keep it or not. And then, after a while, your intuition grows stronger. Right? You kind of know yourself more, like, okay, this feels right, or this doesn't feel right. So in the beginning, I was very, like, indecisive. My intuition wasn't strong. And then after the whole, like, you know, decluttering everything that I physically had, I felt like it helped my intuition grow. Okay, yes. So the intuition, that's an important word, because that's kind of almost the underlying decision-making processes that we make. Because, you know, you get 10, you wake up, and then you check your email, and you've got 10, 20 emails that you have to go through. You probably get more than that on a daily basis. And then you have to realize and decide, okay, do I respond to this one? Is this something, you know, that I can respond to quickly? Is this a task that's going to take 30 minutes, or is this a decision that if I make the wrong decision, it's going to be 20 hours of my life? Yeah. So intuition, it teaches you how to prioritize things in your life. Now, I don't feel as guilty for not replying to this email. I think before you would, like, there's a people pleaser, part of me that wanted to, you know, listen to other people, and please them, or answer their email immediately. So now I, there's less of that, because I, I control my time. Yeah, I think setting filters is a pretty good way to do that as well. Like, I'll try to do that specifically with email. Oh, my contact page on my website, or even through YouTube on the contact page. Usually, that's where a lot of emails come through. And then just let people know, hey, get a lot of emails. Probably not going to respond to everyone, because I'm making this stuff that you guys are messaging me about to begin with. And I think that helps. And I think people truly understand that you need to set those boundaries. And you need to make sure that you're, you know, creating and designing a life that, that you're happy and passionate about. Yeah. And that's what, like, a big part of what you do as well is this, this lifestyle design, which has become like hugely popular and probably since around 2010 or so, it started to grow. What drew you to it originally? So I was, I think around 2010, that was when I was about a junior in college and growing up, I've always been like a good student. I've been good at school because I think I'm good at following rules. If you give me a syllabus or give me homework, like, you know, there's steps. Like, I know how to get it done. I'll do a good job. And I've always been proud of myself. I've taken pride in like being ambitious and achieving. And I went to USA, I was studying business, because I thought that was like a generic major where I could get a job that paid a lot of money. That's really what I thought. And it was around, I think, junior year, where you have to start thinking about what career you want to go into after you graduate. And then that was, I was just so stumped because throughout college, I was really ambitious at getting internships. So I had internships in different like advertising agencies, entertainment companies. And I felt like with every experience in the corporate world, I just hated it to be honest. I didn't feel like I fit and I felt like I wasn't using my full potential in that scenario. I would fast forward, like, okay, if I do this job and I fast forward, like five years, where will I be? And I'll look at the person who's worked there for like five years and be like, I don't want that. Like, that's not really the life I want. And it's not, it didn't excite me. So I was just so frustrated and I went through this whole life, life confused, soul searching, period, junior and senior year of college. And I that was around 2010, 2011. And I felt like every conversation with my friends was so dramatic. It was like, this is the time where everyone's lost and we're just like, oh my god, what are we going to do? Let's, let's just start a company or let's do it. Like, we're just dreaming, but having no idea about our lives. So that was about the time where I, I think I suddenly discovered all these, okay, I'll tell you how I discovered my first self-help book. It was this book store, change book store chain borders. They were having a closing sale in my hometown because all these books stores were going out of business. So I remember being there and like the dollar section, because everything was like super cheap. The dollar section there was a book called Copy Tween of Life and a, you know, Copy Tween a job in a dream. Something like that where it was a book for people who are in a corporate job that they hate and teaching them how to get out of it. So me being like in college, I'm like, oh, that's my future. I might as well read that book now. I get ahead of the game and figure it out. So that book really taught me all these terms that where I don't, we're now probably more mainstream like how to find your purpose in life. That, that was something that was completely new to me back then. So it is kind of crazy to think about it. Because that really, you see it everywhere. And now it almost is a little cheesy, right? Exactly. And it's actually kind of challenging, I would say for the both of us in what we do to try to connect with those people who maybe feel lost and maybe feel inspired by what they're doing because you have so much, as we talked about before, noise. And now we have noise about people that are trying to sell you something. Yeah, now on Facebook, you'll see those ads and a lot of workshops. So it is pretty like noisy now. But I mean, just thinking back then, I, yeah, as a young confused college grad, I was like, wow, this is life changing. Because I think most people, I'm not sure if you feel this, but I had a innate feeling that I was meant to do bigger things or I was meant for something. Like, I didn't have the word for it. Like, I just wanted my life to matter in a way. And so, when I was in college, the only way that I thought I could do that is like, oh, I guess work for a non-profit or something. Like, because I wanted to help people and do something that was meaningful and mattered, which is why I also like started reading that book about the Tom's Founder. Because I like that like business, plus social giving model, but anyway, so that that book got me into personal growth. And from there, I started reading all these other books. And I think over time, it just added up to like all this knowledge and eventually I was like, I have so much knowledge and it really helped me in my life. I was like, I have to share it somewhere. And that's kind of what inspired Lavender. It's kind of crazy to think that you were at one point pursuing a degree in business. And while I mean, technically business probably helped you a lot with where you are now and now you're an entrepreneur and you're doing your own thing. But at the same time, a business degree to me is very black and white. It's almost like, it's very mundane. I took a couple of business classes in college and they're making you create your business plan. And it's all regimented. And it's like, that's not really how it works in the real world. And now you look at what? It's part of it. But it's not everything. It's part of it. Yeah. And I think that everybody's path is so individualistic. And it's hard to say, as you know, it's like five years from now, what is your business going to look like? Where's your revenue thing going to be? It's like that's crazy questions that even be asking. But what I love is that like, I mean, it couldn't be any more different from what you're doing now from like how your brand and what you put out in the world is. It's so colorful, it's so bright. It's so creative. It's such the opposite of what I would think about as a business degree. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. I was totally like, I even considered going into finance and being like a banker just because back I think I back then you had your parents at the voice in your head, right? Like get a job where you're going to, you know, make a lot of money and that was that. Yeah, you said you said what a C plus is an F in an Asian family. There's a lot of pressure that your parents put on you early on. Yeah. Is that does that pressure still come into playing now? Would they prefer you to be a lawyer or a doctor or more of a traditional path? I think up until like this these past couple years. Yes. I think now I'm finally in a place where my parents understand what I do and they're like, wow, you're making money doing this. Like, okay, as long as you're happy. So I think it goes with like parents also maturing. Like when your parents get older, they kind of care a little bit less. Maybe worry a little bit less because that's just naturally what happens. But yeah, really like throughout college or just throughout my life, my parents were really, they had high expectations for me. I think a lot of it is like, oh, we sacrificed a lot in our lives for you to, you for us to pay for you to go to college and all of this. And there's a lot of pressure to succeed and do well to make your parents proud. Because you really do appreciate their efforts. Success meant something very specifically when our parents were younger and they were starting to kind of create their lives and, you know, for a lot of parents of our generation, I would say they were working jobs that they weren't passionate about. They didn't really love. They had to sacrifice a lot. And now we definitely are privileged to be at a place where we can kind of push the needle a little bit further and say, you know what, like I just don't want to work a job that doesn't really fulfill me. Like when I'm spending eight to ten hours a day working, I want to actually like the work I'm doing and feel like I'm making a difference. So I think it's going to slowly change. I think we're getting to a point. I think it's changing. I think our generation is so blessed that we have the choice to follow our passions. And I think we had to kind of, there was like a friction between our parents' generation because they were like so about like sacrifice. But now, I don't know, the trend is going towards like letting people love their lives and love what they do. Yeah, is there is there another aspect that we kind of touched on that is negative where maybe it's, there's almost like there's two paths that you can take when going this untraditional route or creating your own thing, whether you're going to be an author or a filmmaker. Some people can go the route that feels a little bit shallow and almost feels like they're doing it just to prove that they're doing something cool and they're doing something exciting and maybe it's, you know, there's not an underlying. But if that's your reason, you're not going to make it very far, right? To be in the arts, like you have to really come in and love it. Yeah, I don't think you can fake that kind of success, right? I think I guess it would only work out if they got lucky early on and sometimes you see that or certain people just they blow up whether on Instagram or otherwise and they get a huge audience and then maybe that continues to validate it. But you're totally right. That's why you have so many blogs and I'm probably the creator of seven of them that are, hey, sorry, I haven't posted it in a while, you know, like you start a blog and then you stop it and I think that's part of it. It's part of being a creator, right? Yeah. In your experience, I'm sure you've started a lot of things that did not go with the distance. Why do those things fail? Why do you think those things didn't go with the people? Okay, so a lot of things, one is like my music career, so I started posting music like singing and playing piano videos on YouTube since high school and throughout college, I was posting just as a hobby, like posting very sporadically and deep down, I really wanted to make it work. I obviously deep down, you want it to grow and there was like, this is the first wave of like YouTube stars back then and I remember being really into it but I think the reason why that didn't take off is because I was not consistent with it. I was not consistent with posting. I would post like once a month or once every other month. It's just, you can't sustain something that way, so that's a big one. When I started lavender, I made a promise to myself that I'll post once a week, like very strict schedule and that's really how you develop the commitment because it takes work. You can't just be lazy. I feel like posting today or I don't feel like posting today. You really have to schedule it in. So that's one of the reasons why that didn't work out. I mean, there's a few other things that I failed or didn't work out in life. For example, like I went into acting for a little bit and I think that one, I just didn't have the hustle in me. I didn't have the hustle to drive to auditions every day and get rejected. I felt like I was wasting my time. It's hard the acting because the reward is so sporadic. It's sporadic and there's also in the it's not the same way as what like starting YouTube, filmmaking, whatever where you can continually work on that craft and you can get consistent feedback and then you can build upon that and grow. Acting is you have to have others. You know what I mean? How much can you break this in front of the year? Exactly. You're waiting for someone else to validate you and give you a job so you can practice. But then it was just slow in my head too slow for me. Yeah, that is something I'm interested in though, too, is like how can actors, how can they make a name for themselves in a way that's not tied to the traditional forms of making it as an actor, like going in through auditions every day. It's like maybe it is starting a YouTube channel or I think you have to use social media now. Yeah. It's better for you as a personal brand. Well because that's actually one of the reasons why I started my YouTube channel was because I didn't want to be beholden to anybody else to make decisions for me. I wanted to be like, well, if I want to make a film about this, if I have an audience, then I can create it. And now it's becoming less like you don't have to be on Netflix. So you don't have to be on Hulu or any platform. You can just release stuff directly to YouTube and you can make a living on that. Yeah, that's the power of it. I thought about that too. It's like, I wasn't sure what kind of channel I wanted to create in the beginning, but I'm like, I just knew I wanted to start a YouTube channel because I was like, you know, whatever I do in the future, like if I have an audience, it's going to help it no matter what. So it doesn't matter what industry you're doing, I think having social media helps. Right. And you were saying that the consistency is one of the most important things. Consistency is really about for me. It's about building the habit of like putting something, putting something out there consistently, meaning like, because artists tend to really be perfectionist over their work or we tend to procrastinate. And if you don't have that strict schedule, you're going to give yourself too much time. And you know what I mean? You're just never going to put things out. You're going to continue like working on it or perfecting it. So for me, it was learning to just work on something until it's good enough and then put it out there. It doesn't have to be perfect. It doesn't have to be amazing. Like, it was about like, just finish it and then put it. And I think that's so important. If you want to grow as an artist because if you take too long working on something, like, the time is just going to pass by and you're not going to have anything done. So with music, I think I took too long. I was like, oh, I want to make this song so good or, you know, there's just too many barriers. Yeah, we get a little bit too romantic about our creations that they have to be absolutely perfect. And it's funny though, because now you know, with the game with YouTube, you could put a video out there that you spent weeks on and you're like, oh, like, I'm this is amazing. It's going to do really well and like, it, you know, just has a perfect tone and pace and I really perfected it. And then that video gets, you know what it watches that video? And then the video that's got a good thumbnail or title just goes bonkers crazy. Yeah. It would be a lot like easier to produce thing. Yeah. Yeah. So you know, and that maybe says something a little bit about playing the game and when to know when to play it and also know when to create for yourself. Yeah. But I think that the key there is just not overdoing your perfection and just making sure that you keep putting out there. I remember when I started freelancing one of the earliest jobs, I think it took me like a month to edit it. It was a basketball event and it was kind of timely. It's like, hey, we want to get this out there pretty quickly. And I did a really good job on it. I thought I knocked it out of the park. But for me, I'm like, as I grew and as I started to get more work, I realized I would get a lot better if I worked on 10 videos over that period of time versus that one video or one month. Yeah. You learn as with each project that you do. So if you're creating weekly videos for a year, like that's like 52 videos already. So so I have about like 300 something videos on my channel. So just the sheer amount of like work that you do compared to like I have other director friends that they don't do YouTube, but they're like working on one short film a year or one, you know what I mean? It's slower. Yeah, it's harder to see that feedback loop because the feedback is important. If we were putting stuff out there and nobody ever resonated with us, we wouldn't keep doing it or we'd at least change something and figure out, okay, how can I get this message? When you started to create on YouTube, you start to get a little bit of feedback, you have this YouTube channel that starts to do a little bit of well, do you feel a pressure like an urgency to keep going? And is that a good thing or a bad thing? I think it could be both the pressure to keep going because now you have people who are expecting you to post and the the pressure part is they're expecting you to put out a specific type of video. Maybe they really like during the minimalism with people loved minimalism, but I didn't want to be just a channel about minimalism because I like other topics within lifestyle design so I felt the pressure people are like always asking for minimalism videos, but then me, I'm like that makes me not want to do minimalism videos because I want to do what I want to do. So there's kind of like a battle going on within me like I don't I want to continue creating what I want to create versus what other people want to see, but I know that sometimes there's got to be a balance there. There is I think where I mean even right now for me I try to throw in because I do enjoy talking about minimalism in simple living obviously it's a big part of my life so but there's a balance there where maybe every other week all release a video on minimalism or on simple living and then the other videos would be podcast related or creative related. I feel like you do a very similar thing too where it's very heavily focused on creativity. Yeah and then you kind of have to be mindful of like if I enjoy it and my audience enjoys it then that's probably a good use of my time to be able to to give them what they want. But yeah do you what's the longest that you've gone without you said you have this consistency of uploading a video every week what's the longest you've gone without posting a video? In like the four years that I've ran this channel probably the longest is like two weeks of not posting and maybe it's because I'm on vacation or something but then I'll yeah. Slacker is terrible. That is that's a very short period of time right? Yeah I've never gone longer than two weeks of not posting. Yeah and at some point it just becomes normal. I mean this is how long did it take for it to become your job where you made a living like years into it? Two years into it? Two and a half yeah and when did you start 2014? So around 2016 and beginning of 2017 that's where I was like oh this is this is good and I feel confident in it at the premiere. Right I think what's interesting about your coming from your perspective is a lot of people see themselves as just YouTubers and that's it but you branched out outside of YouTube and you're more of like a creative entrepreneur than you are just a YouTuber. No shame on anybody who is a YouTuber I think it works but I think that it's kind of it limits how much you can grow both as an artist and as an entrepreneur and somebody who is trying to make a living off of their crap. What have you learned about kind of stepping off of YouTube a little bit and then creating your own platform, creating you've got like a Facebook community and a podcast and all this other stuff? Yeah I think it's important to kind of not put all your eggs in one basket because when you're just focusing like everything that you have is just on YouTube like the algorithms always changing and I've had I've seen channels like like the algorithm changes on them and then there no one just watches their videos anymore they could have a million subscribers but like no views and so it is a scary thing and I think that's why I like to have other platforms just it's like a you know diversify your career a little bit. It is like finance because you learn to diversify your portfolio so it's it's the same idea also like something like building an email list it's not as popular with younger social media people but that's what something I've started to do because you own your email list like you own the communication between you and that person like the platform can't take that away from you like what Facebook and Instagram or YouTube will do because those platforms they're just trying to make money from like ads right so eventually like I don't know it's well yeah I mean you don't control that yeah I think that for the younger generation they're not as attracted to the mail list mailing list because it doesn't provide the vanity metrics that I think a lot of people are drawn to it's because and I mean dude I totally get it and we all fall prey to this a little bit where it's nice to know that you have an audience and a following and you want that almost as a validation for what you're doing especially if you're following something it's on traditional especially if your parents are like mm-hmm are you sure you want to go down this path yeah so I could see people being drawn to that but if you're a business minded then it doesn't matter what the metrics are it doesn't matter if you're a thousand followers or a hundred thousand because that does not mean you're going to be making a living off of it just because you have followers so you have this this email list how when did you start it and and kind of how do you go about creating content for them I'm not I'm not super great at running it I'll say that it's really bad at it too yeah I might have started it like over a year ago but I I think last year was where I really started to um kind of do things to drive people to the list like I'll give out free worksheets where people sign up the email list to get the worksheet um but that's just been helpful for selling things as like with my workbook I have an artist of life workbook which is like this year end of the year planner where you review the past year plan your goals for the next year and it goes really detailed so that's like it's it's nice when you're pushing something like that that you have like an email list to tell people in advance like for pre-sale and stuff so for the list I think I emailed them by weekly so every other week mm-hmm and but at the same time I'm not super like that's where I'm a little slacking off because my focus is like on YouTube yeah no I tried to do it all no I completely agreed that's that's a challenge and I'd love that's where for me minimalism comes into work and productivity and trying to be very specific about what you do yeah because you know there are five to ten social media apps that are popular to use for me I'm like I can't keep up on everyone even if I'm like pushing to these other ones for me I'm like that's not worth it it's still an attention time you have to just prioritize which ones are most important to you and just focus on like the one or two platforms that you want yeah and email is is the one that's like on the periphery where I'm like for me what I do is like if I make a video that I think would resonate with that audience then I will just write some copy for that video and you know a lot of times we need copy for the videos description anyway so I'll kind of just expand on that and then just put a link to the video to check it out as a way to like let them know I'm still alive that's totally fine because it really is just kind of like you sending a email to your friends and family like hey by the way like check out this is what I'm doing this is what you might like to see so I like it because it feels personal and people can reply and they email me back and it goes straight to my inbox I don't think people realize that that they can reply to me and then I'll reply back so it feels very like one-on-one right and I think that's where you can start to develop a little bit of a community as much as like that's overused like building a community you can really start to develop relationships with audience members and you can actually give back in a more intimate way and I think an email newsletter is probably the best way to do it because that feels exclusive yeah and that person is it's an ongoing relationship and it's like they want to hear from you if they trust you enough to give you their email address this is a lot yeah because I know that I don't like getting I don't I don't I don't subscribe them every I bear I may be one or two people I follow their newsletter yeah it's like but it's a very finite list and you know that's just extra noise in your inbox it's like kind of meaning like the people who are in your email list they really want to hear from you yeah absolutely are there best practices of like building an audience because there's there's a lot of people that do some shady things like if you email them once about something they'll add you they'll take your name put it on your email list like what if you learned about that and like communicating and with an audience I think you just have to be transparent and let that now there's more like recently there's like a new EU regulation called GDPR it's really boring but there but now there's like legal rules where you have to have people like opt-in and specifically tell them how you're going to use their information so I think it's yeah you do have to be transparent about that stuff it's kind of like this new privacy policy and how many emails you get a day or it's like we change our privacy policy yeah if you've noticed that it's because there's a new law that literally just happened like this month so what does that mean for for us is that have you changed anything because of it you have to like change all your forms and you have to like have everyone on your list reconfirmed again that they want to be on your list oh really yeah so it's been a really like how did not know that yeah yeah that's why everyone's like updating you and stuff oh man I might have to I guess I got to do that what happens if you still you just get in trouble well this is for it's focused on the people in the EU so if you have audiences in the EU then you have to get them to reconfirmed yeah guys I don't know man I got a lot of German yeah so you should maybe look into it I mean I don't know if it's a big part like how are they going to catch you this is sounds to me like the same conversations I have about taxes which isn't even more interesting topic to talk about on this topic I hate taxes I'm going to say about that stuff oh I'm going to say well I would just want to ask you a question so do are you good with your taxes or are you and now you're on the requisite to like like the air no I'm really lucky because my mom is a tax account so she I literally just like mom help me with this yeah but I think it's important though for for people who are trying to start something on their own so like really take that seriously because you can't go back and fake it later you can't do some breaking bad shit where your fake and receipts and stuff yeah you gotta actually make sure you're on top of your finances collecting your receipts like start off on the right foot yeah that's my PSA I gotta do one tax PSA every podcast episode and I'm glad we fit it in so when you're looking back is there's something that you would do differently at the start of your channel at the start of growing your own hands there's two answers because on one hand like you can never wish anything was different because I like where I am now so no regrets on that end but if I were to look like practically things that I could have done better is I wish I started my channel earlier I think that's something a lot of people wish they that they started earlier because for so many years I was just doubting myself so even as I was doing the music youtube that music channel wasn't working out but I would watch all of these other vloggers like fashion vloggers beauty vloggers and I would really envy their life and I just felt like that was me being like a fan and just envying them but I think deep down it was because I wanted that life I wanted to be a creator and you know travel and do what they're doing so I had to get honest with myself to like be like okay yes I admit I want to be a youtuber it sounded cheesy because I graduated from college it was like two years after I graduated and all my friends are like in big corporate finance jobs and yeah I mean maybe it's more mainstream now but back then it sounded like such a corny thing to say I want to be a youtuber back then yeah it's it's actually yeah if you're older if you're like 18 sure find but if you're like 23 24 I don't know but I still think the comparison too even today is pretty challenging when people are going off and getting real world salaries and your pursuing a career that is so unguaranteed I think it can be looked down upon it I did feel like I was looked down upon especially because in school I was like smart I was prideful on like how smart and capable I was and yet like I didn't get a real job and I decided to do youtube it just seemed like like why did I go to college why did I you know I felt really unconfident about myself but anyway my my wish is like that I got over that like self doubt earlier on and just started earlier and also like I think in the beginning my video topics were just not good but maybe I just had to learn how to how to make better videos well I think that's part of it I think it's like you know pretty young when you originally started and even made like that first youtube channel and there's like I think it takes some life experience and like going through some difficult and challenging times to be able to talk about that later on but I think that's it's probably the hardest thing to do for a lot of people today is that they're growing up online and a lot of people are going through like 13 to 16 years old putting everything on the internet and I feel terrible for them because if I had my thoughts going out into the world at 13 I know like I don't think I'd ever get a job or I never get a client or I was so melodramatic like the things that you were thinking back then yeah it's kind of hard you have to that people have to go through that but yeah I don't think you're ever you're always going to feel like you're starting to late I think anything that you start you're like oh podcast 2018 if you're going to start it then it's it's too late the way you're always saying that the wave is over like don't start you to now the wave is over but you just have to not listen to that and just start yeah and I've like I've given that advice to where I would say oh blogging like the waves over why would you even blogging but then it's like of course you can make it of course if you can make it on a YouTube today I think YouTube is just as popular I mean it's way more popular today than it's ever been yeah so these platforms just continue to grow you know what I think people just under estimated these platforms they thought that it would it peaked and that it's over now but I don't think social media has peaked I mean it's going to keep growing right yeah and it's not going to be easy so maybe if you were hoping that if you got in early you know like at my space there were people early and then they they were able to leverage that but it's like you know what it's going to take a lot of work to be able to make it you're going to have to put in the time when nobody is listening or nobody's watching to be able to make it and you know what my challenge on my question now is how do you keep it like how do you have longevity with the internet how do you keep it going because like with the first wave of YouTube or whatever you've seen channels blow up and then kind of like drop off and I think back then you would think that they would be successful forever but now I'm seeing that's not the case and right there because there's so many new people coming onto the scene and they kind of push the old people what I mean is like back then maybe their viewers were in college and then maybe now their viewers have families and don't have time to watch YouTube and so your audience changes so thank you right I think you're always changing yeah and I think that it means that we should be changing ourselves and like you can't just be evolving right because if you if you just keep speaking to that same audience that you would start it out with your audience is changing over time and eventually you're going to you're going to lose them yeah yeah I like who did you used to watch ten years ago like do you still watch them now ten years ago oh good without any 2008 YouTube was was two years was two years out I was in college um I don't know if I was watching many YouTube where you always a fan of watching YouTube or yeah so who it was big around that time like Michelle fun like the beauty youtubers back then right is she still going she stopped making videos but she's more of a business woman she has a makeup brand yeah so you can always you can try over it let's get her back into it so you can always like transition out of it I mean there's people like um Casey nice that obviously and he kind just restarted up his blog after a while I mean I've always seen him as like solid he's kind of right it's kind of hard to set to you know picture Casey nice that because he's so big yeah but I think he does prove that you can kind of take a little step away from it and then you can come back and then your your audience will likely still be there yeah yeah sure because I think everyone's in a while I think because he's so authentic and he's doing so many things right yeah that people love him um let's actually we we touched on a couple topics here that were in some of these Instagram questions that I pulled so let's get into these and then we can just we can go from there okay so Nicole direct she's a graphic designer how do you start a channel and keep yourself motivated even if the subscriber count doesn't go up so this is kind of like what we were just talking about it's like how how do you keep that momentum going when nobody's watching and nobody's listening yeah I remember when I started like I mean for a whole year I was making weekly videos and no one was really watching or comments it was it was growing so slow so I understand you have to find a topic that you're so so passionate about like you something that you have like a million ideas about you have to love this topic or this niche so much that you feel like you'll never run out of ideas and I think you really have to do it for the fun of it you have to enjoy making videos and enjoy editing because that's what takes up most of your time and if you don't enjoy the process you're not going to make it very far you you have to enjoy like it's it's kind of a game you play with yourself kind of like can I make this video better than the last like how can I do things differently this video it has to be your own personal project rather than like oh I'm putting this out there for other people to see it it really is like this is just my project to practice and my project to like you're doing it for yourself that that really resonates with me when I first started I started making videos in like 2000 and well it's kind of hard it was in high school so it was probably 2004 or so and even before that was like making these horror movies with my parents VHS camera and like you think about what was my audience then it was my parents it was my friends and in school when I started in high school you know shooting on a Sony handy cam there YouTube was there but nobody was uploading videos at least like me and my friends we were just making videos for ourselves and like they were all inside jokes nothing would have been you know nobody best it's like so fun for you guys yeah and like that's it's if it's an audience of five or ten people but like I just remember loving the craft and loving stitching together videos and creating a story that didn't exist before and it didn't have to get a million views and I think now we get a little bit too caught up and it's maybe cliche advice but I think we do get caught too caught up in the views the likes and all that stuff and we need to just focus on do I actually really love this thing because it is sexy now to be a filmmaker or a youtuber or to have a large following on Instagram but if you don't actually love what you're doing you're you know you're just like the person that's following a nine to five job for money you're just doing it for the money you're not doing it because you really like it is there advice there for people to help find their passion because you know is that it is at a straightforward pursuit is it something everybody's built everything is not obvious for everyone some people are born and they they they know they really like the thing but most people even myself like you're just kind of wish you wash you about all these different things so I I think to find your passion is to pay attention to the things that you're curious about and it could be as you're scrolling like social media like what kind of posts are you curious about what gets your interest and then kind of dig deeper into those interests because say like you you notice that you care about like environmental issues and you know dig deep into that so I think it's about like like discovering what you're curious about and then just like dig deep and see if you genuinely love it yeah what are your passions and are there some of those that do not fit under the umbrella of your blog in your YouTube channel like other some that you're like oh well I'm never going to make money talking about priming yeah I mean I'm passionate about like I love music singing dancing and I guess I'm passionate about like I guess being a good person like being kind and and I think most of the things I'm passionate about like making videos and writing it does fit under the umbrella of my YouTube but some things are just like outside but I honestly I think everything is creative so even if I like singing but I don't really sing on this channel anymore it's still like you know everything overlaps in a way yeah it's kind of hard to almost define when work begins and ends yeah um do you you put in many hours you know like do you have a set schedule where like our money fried is work or do you shoot videos in the weekends you know so I try to work on the weekend and have the weekends freeze sometimes I do work on like a one weekend day but so I set like locked days where like Mondays and Tuesdays will be my shooting and editing days and then Wednesdays is more like admin and catching up with stuff I record podcasts on fried or on Thursdays like that Thursdays are like my meetings with other people and podcasts days and the Fridays just open for random miscellaneous activities so I try to like group tasks together like that I feel like that makes me more productive right so how does that make you more productive in terms of setting your schedule in that way where I need to me that sounds like a dream to have like it's such structure um and actually an expectation of knowing what your weeks usually look like and you can kind of get into a rhythm and and especially with the creativity we're talking about you have to sit down and do this work every single week so how does it how was that helped you be more productive yeah I think it's just more productive to focus on like one type of task at a time so like taking the stage just to like edit videos or something because if you're switching between different tasks there's something called context switching you actually lose like 20% productivity or 20% of your attention span during that switching time because it takes time to like like once you start a task you're not fully immersed it takes time to immerse yourself and get in that flow so it's better to like switch less and also I consider myself more of an introvert so if I have to meet with people it's kind of exhausting like after a meeting I have to like I don't know relax for an hour or something so it's first meet once I'm meeting with someone it's easier to like have multiple meetings that day since I'm already in that like socializing mood yeah I actually I'm I 100% agree and I'm definitely an introverted creator like when I'm making something and I'm writing and I'm editing a video like all these acts for me I don't do as well when other people are even in the same room yeah yeah because you feel a little like pressure yeah I'm like get out of here even if I'm working on the same thing I'm working I'm like I just need to be totally by myself I'm trying to but then yeah it's certainly a mindset shift when you know the first I'm sure you've had this too where like we work independently by ourselves and then like oh I didn't go outside today oh this is my first time speaking to another human today and like your brain isn't ready for those kinds of interactions as silly as that sounds but yeah when I if I can schedule interviews back to back on the same day you get yourself better yeah you get yourself into a talkative mood yeah your your your brain kind of switches on in a way we're like okay this is what we're gonna be doing today which some people can be just turned on from you know the early morning and they're extroverted and they can get right into it but I feel like for people like us that maybe our nature is to be solo creators it helps to kind of batch but I think for anyone it's hard to like be on for an hour and then turn off and focus on like something quiet and then turn on again haven't you know it's it's not productive that way do batch a lot of your tasks like email and so for media stuff like that yeah like I tried to just like not check email or not answer emails in the morning and just kind of like finish the most important work and then like have like you know a few hours later in the day to tackle email or sometime I'm really bad at answering emails all just like not like wait a week and then maybe like on Friday on answer all my emails you know yeah and then so you're scrolling through your email inbox how do you know how is it kind of second nature do you now to know like what even emails you should be opening up or do you tend to go through all of them well I tend to like go through them and I like you know I archive the ones that are just spam and I don't have to answer if there's something really important then I just star it and maybe I'll I know I have to get to that later that day but yeah I do that like if I open an email and I'm like oh this is really important I'll market as unred so I'll it'll be there that I have to open it again oh I like that yeah because once that email is red I forget about it you forget it existed to do the same thing like if I star it because they just you know so there hold there the visual is different is that going on click yeah that's actually a really good tip because if a lot of times I'll use my inbox as a separate to-do list you know because there's certain things that would be in your inbox that take a little bit of while to create and then I have and I'm sure I'm curious if you have this separately as well like a to-do list of creative tasks how do you organize those tasks and know what you should be working on each step usually I have a a big to-do list like I have a app on my phone that has like to-do is separated by a category kind of like website to-do's or YouTube to-do's and then but what I do is I have like a today section I kind of like I move what's the most important thing I want to do today and then I focus on the to-do list okay and then is this I'm also interested in morning slash night time routine do you have either of those or is it generally pretty close yeah every day morning routine if I have time I do have a routine where I like wake up make tea and then I I love doing morning pages which is like journaling three pages of like the stream of consciousness meaning you don't feel to yourself so I that will I'll do that and then I'll meditate for like 15 to 20 minutes and then go on with my day but sometimes I don't have time and I just skip those or I maybe I'll journal at night journaling is a pretty big part of I love journaling so much yeah that was it helped you in so many ways it's my way of talking to myself and like a digging deep to see what I'm really feeling what I'm really thinking and I I think I tend to be like uh because the way that I am with on my channels like I'm like a life coach type of person and that's how I am in real life I always like to give advice so my friends so when I journal I'm giving advice to myself so I'm just coaching myself like you know you can really change your mindset it doesn't always come natural to people to ask really difficult questions to think about where they want their life to go you know a lot of times it takes a significantly negative thing to happen in your life to bring about a change say I loved one dies you realize that life is short like a lot of times that's what it takes but if you can consistently journal or or keep down your thoughts and try to really consistently work on yourself and improve yourself then I feel like you're going to be able to get to that point before you ever have one of these you're right like you don't have to wait for a crisis to start changing your life you can really do it anytime I think most people in their normal life they're scared to face like there's a fear there you don't want to face the ugly parts of you or you don't want to admit that this you have this weakness or this flaw or something but when you're journaling nobody else is reading it so for me that's where I can be the most honest with myself because no one's judging me so I could really just let it all out and then that's how it like you have to reveal yourself and be aware of what's going on to in order to work through it first most people they don't even want to look at it right so journaling is like a safe way to look at that and then work through it that's great I have a question that's kind of relates to that but more so is like how we bring our voice to the world Kyle Fallen's be from Instagram asks hi Matt and I lean my question to either of you concerns creativity and how you created your own voice I found that I have these great ideas on what I'd like to accomplish but I realize that branding or creating a clear vision is almost necessary to sustain an audience can you explain how the initial steps of creating your voice came about and how you sustained it over time yeah well your voice is just like your true personality I think it's easier to create a voice for like a person versus like a brand that's anyway but I think to start out you're gonna have to just experiment right and there's no other way then to like experiment and see what feels right and do do what's fun for you and then a little tip is try not to like watch other people's stuff too much because when you read or watch other people stuff it it kind of becomes part of you hmm I mean that's that's how we are it aren't we just like a mix of all the sources that we absorb yeah I think that's definitely that happens yeah I think that's definitely a conversation there whether how much we should be consuming versus creating I think that you can definitely gather inspiration from people and I know early on I certainly did copy other filmmakers styles but it was like my stuff wasn't being seen by anybody and you can learn from doing that too you can learn how they create and stuff yeah I think it's okay to it's okay to be inspired by other people it's even okay to like like copy their work in order to learn but not not say that it's yours obviously it's like inspired like when people make parodies or something like that but I think eventually as you continue creating also with the consistency thing like the more you create the more you're gonna learn what is your voice the more you're gonna develop that voice too yeah I think there is a instinct in a lot of people that wants the record you know button gets pressed you have this personality that you then like almost change who you are to be more hey I'm talking to a camera now hey I'm talking to an audience or like if you're getting interviewed on TV there's definitely a certain tone that you have in that conversation that you might not have with your friend normal life and I think what most of us are trying to get to is a point where we can just be ourselves and feel comfortable in our own skin and I think it takes doing it a lot it takes consistency it takes every you know every time you hit that record button trying to just let go and trying to let go of this kind of character that you're creating to be yourself and one way that I've actually I've also realized that it's about focusing on your strengths and not everybody has the same style and you know Russell brand can turn on a camera and sound like a genius for an hour straight but for me I might need to prepare a little bit I might need to write down some notes and say all right if I'm gonna do an AMA podcast that's gonna be an hour long I'm gonna have all these questions prepared maybe I'll take a couple of notes for each one to see like okay that okay that's a good idea oh I could tell that story I could do that and I'm more prepared and I feel like I can have a better podcast or better discussion then if I were to just freeze to out so you guys just know yourself and it takes some time it just takes practice yeah because nobody's super confident and amazing on their first try it really just takes practice yeah and like you said a lot of times were faced with doubt in the very beginning yeah and even if you go back and watch my original videos like I would you know I'm talking to the camera but my eyes would always be like looking off-screen because I was shy or something and then now I'm more comfortable just like looking directly at the camera and talking so I have got a question here from Thomas Rahika what are the downsides of being a minimalist what thing do you miss the most since you've become a minimalist I'm not sure if there is a downside because you can define what minimalism means for you because I think people have the they think that being a minimalist means you have to cut out things from your life but but if that thing is something that makes you happy you don't have to cut it out you know what I mean so you can be a minimalist in most of your life but if you really love like shoes or something I think you're still allowed to have a lot of shoes right if you love if you genuinely love each one I think the point of it is not to have anything extra yeah I feel like if there's downsides then you're probably not doing minimalism right yeah like there's I think people just think that it's like cutting yourself off but it's not right and it is hilarious though because I'm not sure if you've gotten these comments but like I certainly get get not all the time but it's like oh well that's not minimalist yes all the time people love to judge right yeah it's like nothing will make people happy I will I think because the term minimalist I think people have this image in their mind that you have to live in an all white black and white space and have like you know t-shirts in just one color and I really don't know but there's always like I think with every movement with like veganism or zeroways like people are very they just more judgey they're they don't realize that it's a journey and everybody's life looks different everybody's version of minimalism looks different yeah I think at it's core it's about intentionality so if you're being very intentional with the decision decisions that you make whether it's the things you bring into your life your friends or family then that's gonna be the that's what you should be focusing on you shouldn't be focusing on like well should I get rid of this cup or keep this cup and then maybe like maybe do that in the beginning maybe the the condo Marie method is that what it's called condo Marie yeah so like you can go through that go through your stuff and then you know at the end of the day if you're focusing too much on your stuff you're probably also missing the point yeah because it's really about moving past it to be able to focus on your life what's really important in your life yeah exactly I got a question from Josh them from Canada at what point is another creator worthy of collaborating with it's an interesting question well that is an interesting question um I think if you're trying to collaborate with a creator that you admire I think the point that it is worth it doesn't have to be about numbers it really just has to be about like whether they respect your work and whether you could help them in some way I think if like if you can give them value in some way something that helps them then their cause a collaboration is a win-win scenario it should be win-win so you should offer something and then they should offer something I think as long as you can find that medium then then it's possible right I found early on that was my biggest hurdle when starting the podcast was that I didn't have an audience so and I did have all these self limiting doubts that like oh well I could never get somebody to come on my podcast because nobody listens to it so then I had to figure out all right what are other ways that I might be able to influence or inspire somebody to come on my podcast when I don't even have any episodes or quotes or what did you do so for me that's where video was very helpful and creating a really professional website and these are the things that stand out to me if somebody asked me to come on their podcast isn't that what I said to you and you're even I'm like your website looks great and your videos look great yeah and that's what I try to focus on and like even if you know you don't even have to share audience numbers or anything like that and I rarely do and then for me it was like all right I create a really beautiful website and like the video side of things helped out a lot because then I could visually show like I knew that my video chops were I've been working on the 2015 I think you so much but I've been doing it for so long that I knew that I was good and that like I could set myself apart just by doing video but okay he's actually investing time and energy into this craft right they see the work I've put in so then they would be more likely to give an hour two hours at their time to come over and chat I think that's a great point and you have to show that you are professional and you create high quality work in some way I think the people when you just reach out to someone they don't know who you are like you have to have things to show for it it doesn't have to be exactly what you're asking for but like you said like you had videos that you could show you just have to show something that is of like a higher quality you just can't be like here's an iPhone video like let's make a video together you know right I think it's and I think what it really comes down to is respect and when I respect somebody's work work if they're a designer or if they're just you know they have an Instagram account that's really beautiful if I can look at them wow that's like I don't care how many followers they have if they got five followers it doesn't matter if I love if their work is good yeah I'm like wow they put in the time and energy into this thing like yeah I'll do a photo shoot with you yeah do whatever that said time is still important so you can't do every collaboration under the sun you have to be a little bit choosy sometimes they're certain busy times like right now working on another documentary so I can only do like two or three big things whether it's podcast youtube channel and then like main side project and like that is a majority of my time now so during those things I unfortunately have to say no to a lot of podcasts interviews or time commitment in that case like don't ever feel bad if someone says no to you it's just how it is people are busy and you know just try again try it with the next one it's like dating and so many ways it is like don't take it personally just onto the next one yeah like I know some friends like it would get so upset and they would get drunk and like tell somebody off because they didn't respond after two days and the person's like I was gonna respond I was on vacation yeah so you have no idea what somebody's going through you have no idea what's going on in their life and you know sure they could be an asshole or they could be a jerk but maybe just look on the bright side and be like well maybe I was going to say look on the bright side maybe somebody they know died but look on the bright side as in maybe it's not personal it's probably not personal most of the time it's not about you it's just people get busy people get busy and you can't do everything yeah all right let's see here so we talked a little bit about like money and entrepreneurship and how to make a living online what have you specifically learned about making money online and making a living as a creator I learned a lot of things one is it's not like don't expect it to stay stable because it fluctuates and that's the reality of like being online having your own business but one thing I learned is we mentioned it earlier is really you have to diversify your income you can't just depend on say YouTube add sense you cannot depend on that to bring your income you have to be creative and think of other ways to make money other ways to like bring value to people and make money whether it's like selling something like a digital product or like I don't know just you have to be creative like for me I make money through like YouTube ads also like branded videos I have podcasts ads I have affiliate I do affiliate marketing so whenever I recommend like audible or something on Amazon you get a commission so so there's gotta be different ways that you make money and then you have it all add up to your income because if you just depend on one thing you're gonna be kind of like you're you're susceptible to the changes of that platform or that income stream so create your own income stream is what I'm saying right do you think that people there there's certain time or at least a size of your audience that you should wait for before you try to monetize or do you think that it's something you should try to learn and figure out as you're creating yeah I don't think you should ever focus on the idea of monetizing when you're creating even whether you're starting out or whether it's like further all along in the game you have to focus on creating the things that you like creating you know like focus on the work and then the money will come later but it is hard so that's why I never recommend anyone to like immediately quit their job and start a YouTube like definitely start your online business while you're doing something else because it's not gonna be stable for the first couple years how can people make that transition that that to me it seems like the tough part because and I've certainly had people say well like I've got a full-time job if I can't it's like at this I can't there's no way I could do a video week and for me I'm like well if you can't do a video week I know it's tough I know it's not going to be easy but if you just if you can't do one a week you're probably not gonna be able to do it period so what advice would you give people that are trying to find the time to that's usually the number one excuse is like I don't have enough time but isn't that everyone's excuse for everything in life like but we all have the same amount of time we all have 24 hours in a day so it's the question is how bad do you want it and are you willing to sacrifice something else in order to make time to to start this online thing because we do have time we do have time that we're browsing on social media and time I don't know people have more time than they think it's just a matter of like carving out that time maybe carve out two hours in your night or two hours a week to work on it whatever you can carve out like put dedicate that time to it so maybe you can't make one video a week yet but you can work slowly to create like a library of videos and maybe you can start later and like post them slowly do you know what I'm saying yeah you don't have to start posting now but you can start working towards as as long as you're taking some actions towards it then you're fine yeah especially with with YouTube and I I think now with pretty much every social media application you can schedule posts so that's been helpful to me as to be like you know what I'm going on vacation in two weeks so and I'm going to be gone for 10 days and I want to make sure I have videos queued up and podcasts queued up and everything scheduled and ready to go so if you're thoughtful you got to be ahead of again and you got to really set yourself up to succeed because that's the one thing is that like you said if you just wait until the wait until inspiration comes it won't come. It's not going to come forever yeah so you have to just make sure that you keep on has there been advice that you received early on that really stuck with you or advice that continues to you continue to go back to yeah so many but the one that sticks out the most is and I learned it in like a business class too it was take the biggest risks when you're young and the youngest you'll ever be is right now because tomorrow will be a day older right so you're right because as you get older there's just more and more responsibilities and burdens and so I like I heard this when I was in college and that's one of the things that motivated me to just like start the channel just go for the life I wanted even though it was a big risk but if I'm not going to do it now like what am I going to wait till I'm 30 to start it like you know like you might as well just start now it's it's I think risk year to not go after it when you know what I mean imagine living a life that you are not just fully inspired by yeah how how many days can you put in in a job that you just hate but you have to because now you have real life responsibilities yeah yeah it's not going to be easy I feel like you're going to be you're going to work way harder in the beginning than you will at the end I know early on it was I would be taking the subway late at night train stations through really bad areas to film weddings and bar mitzvahs and all the stuff that wasn't right now like I'm glad I did it then and there was a part to it that I loved but it was certainly a grind you're not making any money and when you're young you're you're more able to grind and you're willing to do those shady jobs here and they're like we've all done like things that I don't know just you wouldn't do now but you did it because you were young and yeah that was the time for it right and I think that's just another reason why you should start as soon as possible and if you're listening to this and you're 40 years old you're still the youngest you'll ever be you're the youngest who have basically started it now if people want to connect with you online where's the best place to go okay so you can probably check me out on youtube so my name is lavin derr I also have a website lavin derr.com so you can see my youtube and my podcast there as well as follow on my other social media cool thank you so much for doing the podcast thank you cheers for listening to the ground up show for more info mozie on over to groundupshow.com and as always stay true blue oh go
