# Is GaryVee a minimalist?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xKKochuzQ4Q
More videos from me: http://patreon.com/mattdavella
GaryVee:  https://youtube.com/GaryVaynerchuk

Hi my name's Matt & I make videos on this channel every week about minimalism, lifestyle design & habits. Subscribe if you'd like to see more from me.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** gary vaynerchuk, gary vee, matt d'avella, matt d, minimalism, ambition, minimalist, lifestyle, simple, simple living, consumerism, advice, habits, change, life, living, 
**Date:** 2019-03-12

## Transcript
 Are you doing something you enjoy to do? Like happiness and fulfillment has to become a much bigger part of the conversation than financial upside. I'm always very hurt when people think that I'm pushing hustle and too much work and make it for the money. You know, my behavior doesn't map to that. Gary Vaynerchuk, also known as Gary B. Also known as Gary B. He's one of the most celebrated entrepreneurs generation and his story is that of the American dream. My family immigrated to the United States in 1978 when I was three years old. My sister's baby seat was a car seat found in the garbage. It was kind of raw. The Baylor Roos immigrant first found his knack for business by selling baseball cards in high school and then later by expanding his family's wine business. He's now a New York Times best selling author five times over angel investor in companies like Facebook and Twitter. He's a designer ex and CEO of the ad agency Vayner Media. His style can mostly be summed up as being, well, confronting. The world isn't what mommy and daddy told you. You haven't been punched in the face yet. Put in the work. Fuck you mother fucker. I followed Gary since the early days but as I revisited his message over the past six months I found a large overlap between his world view and surprisingly that of the minimalist movement. So are you familiar with minimalism? A familiar with it. The way that many people are familiar with most things which is they can headline read, you know, keeping things simple not having a lot of stuff like those kind of things I can understand the nuances from afar. Has anybody called you a minimalist before? No, but it's funny that you just said that like I understand that about me in some weird way. You see, when you look at Gary's office, you see a lot of stuff. He calls them chaches. And the way he delivers his message. Hand gestures and all can be a bit loud. So can Gary Vaynerchek really be a minimalist? Smiling in your fucking Toyota is way better than crying in your Ferrari. Something I've realized that really kind of caught me off guard is how many people spend more money on shit than they can afford. If you want to be on W on money, you don't have because you want to look good amongst your pure set that you've made it You will lose. People fucking confused. You think a fucking Ferrari or some fucking hot supreme or fucking pretty girl or boy or a yacht is going to make you happy but you're just not smart about life. Regardless of whether he uses the minimalist label which personally I could care less about, he's been a huge champion in the effort to get people to reevaluate your priorities. One of the biggest drums he's been beating over the past six months is radical. He's trying to convince aspiring 30 to 40 year old entrepreneurs creatives and freelancers those who are struggling with bills to downsize and move back home to live with their parents. The fact that 30 fucking 5% of this audience wants their side hustle to be their careers but the reason they can't is because they can't quit their job because they need their job to pay for dumb shit to impress people they fucking hate. There's something very in the ear that is manifesting to me that's clear which is we have a lot of people out there that really pretty much live their lives based on other people's opinions. And I just know that right now somebody's listening or watching who overextended themselves and own things they can't afford. You're underwater, you're in debt, you're living too much above your means. You can sell off your home and you bought that was too big for you in the first place. Get some level of dollars back or at least get out of debt or a mortgage. Move back it with your parents which is if you're not worried about your high school friends or your co-workers saying I'm sorry that you move back with your parents. If you can deal with the stigma but people have pride or have a preconceived notion that that's unacceptable that's in the air I'm trying to start conversations that I believe in. I believe there are hundreds of thousands of people who would become miraculously happier if they saw the world in a different way. If you know Gary from the surface you might be surprised by his perspective. And that's because the first word people often associate with Gary V. is the word hustle. Hustle is the most important word ever and that's what you need to do. You need to work so hard. Guys, we're building businesses here. This isn't about parties. He came in pretty hot. Over the past 10 years he's continued to talk about the merits of hustle. He'll tell you that it's not the only thing that matters but you won't get very far without it. The reason I push hustle so much is because it feels like the most fucking controllable thing to change the outcome of what disappoints you. And he's right. If you're passionate and want to be successful however you define it you will need to work really hard. If you love what you do it's often the hard work itself that's fulfilling. There's nothing worth celebrating about getting a handout or admiration for something you didn't do. That only fills your ego. Not your soul. But lately there's been some pushback against Gary and those who advocate hustle. An article called Gary Vaynerchuk is trying to kill you received 29,000 claps, which is I guess I like. Critics say that it can promote an unhealthy relationship with work glorifying long hours and sleepless nights. They call it hustle porn. You've spoken out against something that you call hustle porn. Yes. What is that? Right. Personally I would have gone with a different name but okay. And to be honest, I find myself somewhere in the middle on this issue. I'm just as passionate about keeping my life simple as I am about my work as a filmmaker. I often find myself walking this type rope between minimalism and ambition. How do we hustle with intention? So for myself and there's a lot of people like me who are incredibly ambitious about their work lives but they're also ambitious about their health, their wellness, their relationships. We definitely don't do it by listening to Gary V or the anti Gary V. We make it very contextual to ourselves and we also don't judge ourselves through the process. Right now I'm in the phase in my health and working out, especially after I really severely sprayed my ankle. For the last three months I've just not been in the same zone that I've been for the last four years. I'm dealing with it by not over judging myself. Things have been flow. Right now you're massively good physical shape. I think you're just all hurt. I'm in crisis today. But I'm sure you intuitively understand there'll probably be a chapter where you won't be as tight on your regimen and what have you. I'm very fascinated by the conversation of work ethic, hustle, overworking. I'm fascinated by people's ability to not take on accountability. The answer to the question is, by conversating with yourself and trying to develop self-awareness and not look for outside validation. When people email me and say, Gary V, I've been hustling 15 hours a day. I'm like, you getting enough rest? You good? Are you pumped? Like with intention? My intention is to be happy. And so I'm not going to apologize for enjoying my work. I think there's a lot of judgment in the air on this issue right now. And so yeah, I'm trying to do a better job or last year of clarifying it because I don't want to be dragged down in the momentum of something I don't believe in, which is why in the world, what I believe in, why would any human being want somebody to burn out and not be happy? But guess what? I would be burnt out and unhappy if I worked nine to five. I would die. Yeah, I think that was my favorite thing that you said in crushing it was this idea of thinking about the people who are just judging through a job that they hate. I know unbelievable amounts of unhappiness from people that work 40 hours a week. Who gets to decide? Definitely not me. And definitely not people who are pushing very hard in what they perceive to be my point of view on this issue. I think I've been consistent. I could have been better at clarifying it along the way. We look up to people like Gary because they've built something we aspire to. We've got experience we can learn from or we just respect their take. But we often mistakenly try to map their exact templates under our own life. I think I both love work ethic and minimalism. I think I already know that I'm kind of a nigma and have like some pretty contradictions within me. I think it'd be a really good time for all of us and any sector about any debate. Red versus white wine. Let alone minimalism, anti-millism, hustle, anti-millism. It's a really good time to get back to a cordial state of debate. By the way, the person who wrote the article Gary Vaynerchuk is trying to kill you, followed up with a new article after speaking with Gary himself and learning more about his message. It's called, I was wrong. Gary Vaynerchuk is not trying to kill you. It's much easier to jump to judgments based on a sound bite or to even follow someone's advice blindly. It's much more challenging to ask the difficult questions of yourself. A big question Gary's been trying to get people to ask is this. Are you doing something you enjoy to do? Like happiness and fulfillment has to become a much bigger part of the conversation than financial upside. It's funny as you were talking about minimalism. It's so interesting that you're the first person ever say it to me that I can recall and it feels very real to me. There's no thing you can pull up that speaks to me saying money is happiness. I wasn't raising that environment. I know it's not true. Get more videos from me at patreon.com slash Matt Diavella. Learn how I make my films and color grade my projects. Get access to my personal vlogs where I give you more intimate look into my life and business and ask me questions on my AMA podcast. There's a link in the description. Thanks so much for your support.
