# Ground Up 042 - Rewrite the Rules w/ Cole Younger
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XOJKElQ_yDs
http://www.groundupshow.com

How one man rewrote his future, got off the streets & found his calling.

Cole Younger is a Los Angeles based photographer that shares stunning photos with his audience of over 280k Instagram followers. From a young age optimism wasn’t a part of his world view. Cole struggled with using & selling drugs, being locked behind bars & coping with depression. Picking up a camera was his way out.

This is the story of how one man rewrote his future, got off the streets & found his calling.

Cole's Instagram:  https://www.instagram.com/cole_younger_/

Watch this episode:  mattdavella.com/043
Exclusive content:  groundupshow.com

Thanks for listening! If you've got a minute I'd really appreciate a rating on iTunes.
**Keywords:** ground up, cole younger, photography, photos, instagram, followers, build following, optimism, interview, the ground up show, podcast, film, filmmaking, behind the scenes, production, how to, self-help, encouragement, minimalism, simple living, 
**Date:** 2018-01-17

## Transcript
 There's a lot of self-doubt in the beginning. It's very looked down upon where I come from to be like a photographer, a painter, you're not going to be an artist. You're going to be a fuck up. That's where you're going to be. From the very beginning of me picking up that iPhone 4 and going out on the streets and taking photos, there was a lot of self-doubt. I didn't think it was going to turn into a careers. I just knew it was helping me with my depression. That's basically where I started. From a young age, Cole Younger didn't have a very optimistic world view. He struggled with using and selling drugs, being locked behind bars, and coping with depression. Hicking up a camera was his way out. Now, Cole Younger is a Los Angeles based photographer that shares just stunning photos with his audience of more than 280,000 Instagram followers. That was just blown away by Cole's story. In our conversation, we talk about the arbitrary rules that photographers often place on themselves. We also talk about how he won the money for his first camera in a Los Vegas gas station. That's not a joke. And the silver linings of his dark past. In this story, it's one of a man who rewrote his future. Got off the streets and found his calling. A couple of housekeeping items here before we get to this week's episode. I'm starting to take questions on the podcast. The most common emails that I get are from creatives that are struggling. And are looking for advice about their specific problems. These questions are detailed and specific. And I think answering them on air is really going to add a lot of value to you listeners. So whether you are a filmmaker or an artist or you're somebody struggling to develop a healthy habit. Here's what you can do. Record a video on your phone asking your question and send it to hello at matdeavella.com. You can get as detailed about your story as you'd like to give the proper context. But I just ask that you keep these to under two minutes. I'll then pick the question that I think my guess that week will be uniquely able to help me answer. So again, that's hello at matdeavella.com. I look forward to hearing from you. Have you gotten some value out of the ground up show? If so, there's one thing that I love for you to do. Head over to iTunes and leave me a quick rating. It takes 15, 20 seconds. But it really helps to promote the visibility of the show and ensures that more people can hear these amazing stories. So if you want to help keep this podcast, 100% advertisement free. Do me a favor. With all that said, what do you say we get to the podcast? This is co-younger. You're listening to the ground up show. A podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matdeavella and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary Minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. Cool. Thanks for coming on the show. Thanks for having me. Excited to have you here. Big fan of your work. Moving to L.A. I feel like looking at your Instagram and checking out your photos. It gives me a pretty good feel of what L.A. Because most of your work is based here in L.A. You do some traveling, but a lot of us predominantly here. Yeah, I love L.A. I mean, it's where I grew up. And I like to show it that way. For what it is, the bad and the good. The thing that I love about your work is, I feel like a lot of times with creative work. The artists will try to over-explain what they're trying to get across. And I'm a victim of that as well, where I make these teasers and videos. And I'm like, a lot of times, you let it speak for itself. Put it out there. Maybe have a little caption just to get a little bit of a teaser, a little bit of explanation for what it is. But that's what I admire about your work, too, where you kind of let the work speak for itself. It's funny, too, because I get a lot of comments or direct messages about that. And they're like, oh, a caption could make it that much more powerful. And I tell them the same thing every time. I mean, some of my favorite photographers have said, just let the work speak for itself. Let the viewer come up with their own story for the photo. And that's what I do. That's what I try to do. A lot. Unless something compels me to write like this crazy caption, I don't do it very often. Was it always like that? Were you always light on the caption? The way I started out was I was out on the streets. My iPhone 4. I didn't have a camera from the beginning. I started with the iPhone. And I would go. I'm a product of the streets. My parents weren't really around when I was a kid. And so I spent a lot of time on the streets. I met a lot of people on the streets. I still have a lot of friends from when I was younger. That are on the streets. Still a lot of them have passed away. A lot of them are in jail. But when I first started, I wanted to tell their stories. The people that I knew. And I basically would go out. Excuse me. Take a photo of them. And hear their story and kind of write it on Instagram. And I feel like that's what kind of got my name out there. Initially. And over the years kind of just evolved into just letting it. The photo tell the story for the people. Like let them come up with their own story. What we just spoke about. But I used to write paragraphs on some photos. On some photos of those photos. The people every Monday I would go out. Or every Monday I would post on Instagram. These stories and kind of let people read them. And I don't know. It's something I feel like I want to get back into. But I just haven't yet. Because there's a lot of hate on those two. It's like, oh, you're taking advantage of these people. This is for your own gain. But if they really go and look at the comments and likes on it, it's way less than what I usually get. And also, I feel it's important to tell those stories because they're not really told. On an everyday basis. And I was on the streets. I was homeless. So I kind of get where they're coming from. So yeah. You kind of think about the perception of what somebody has somebody's going to take this. Right. Like what's the worst way that they can screw this and twist this and make it look. And guess what my intentions are. Right. At the end of the day, man, that's like impossible. You can't control people's perception of your intentions. Yeah. You only have to go with your gut. And like if there's a story that you want to tell, push it out there. And I think as you, you start to develop an audience, they understand who you are. And it's like each story builds on itself. And obviously, I think part of that is getting personal with it. And I don't know if you get very personal with how you're posting on line. I don't know if that might help. I feel like it's such a complicated and difficult. These these stories are complicated and difficult to tell. And you want to make sure that you're you're giving them due justice. Right. And also that you're not taking advantage of the people. Like you said that you're you're photographing. Yeah. And I mean online, I don't want people to think of me that way. Like I'm taking advantage of people. And it's like I have a following now. And some people do understand what I'm trying to do with it. And a lot of people don't. And I just don't want to be perceived that way. By anybody because I don't try to take advantage of anyone. You know, I was like I said I was on the streets. I know how it feels. It's a very lonely place. And when you're homeless. Nobody wants to even look at you, especially in LA. Like I've been other places where people take care of homeless. Like Canada. It's like homeless is you're one of their own. Doesn't matter if you're homeless. People buy something to eat all the time. Like you'll never go hungry in Canada. And here you see the guys digging through trashes. And like stealing food and going to jail for stealing food. Because they're hungry because no one will give them money. Or other cases don't spend it on drugs, of course. But I literally just had one of my first experiences helping out with the homeless shelter over my birthday. I just turned 30 a couple of days ago. And my girlfriend. Thanks, man. Like she gave me the greatest present because we've always been talking about, okay. Like we want to help out. We want to contribute. Yeah. And then so she found a place for us to help out delivering food to the homeless. Like it was the day after my birthday. Yeah. And that was really my first experience. And the thing that opened my eyes about the whole thing was that these are people that have their own quirks, their own idiosyncrasies. Like some are incredibly polite and gentle and calm. Some are a little bit angry. Some obviously have some some problems in their lives. Yeah. So, but it's I'm like shit. That's no different than my friends and my family and the people that I know. Yeah. So it made it very real to me. And I think we try to to disconnect. They're even me living in New York for five years. Just get used to walking past homeless people and not acknowledging them or ignoring them or saying, Sorry, not today. Like I'm sorry. I can't give you money today. That it becomes very challenging when you do when you are faced with it. Of course. And I see that part and a lot of a lot of the reason for me putting that stuff out on Instagram when I first started and I still kind of do put it out. But not with the stories. Was because of that reason. It's just kind of like a raise awareness that these are people too. And that was that's like 80% of it. And the other 20% was just wanting to tell their stories because they'll never be told. Really. That's that's honestly the best motivation to get into it. Because it's not like you were you were looking for any external outcome. You know, a lot of people might get into a specific field for the money. Right. But it seems like that wasn't what got you into it. Yeah. I mean, people are like, oh, you're selling their prints and making money. And it's like, if you ever hit me up, I've never sold a print. I just won't. I just don't sell prints. I've sold a print actually of this guy Steven for and it was for a charity. And I gave it right into that. So I gave it to this homeless charity. I make money doing what I love. And I just haven't got to the point where I want to even sell prints. But if it's for a charity, I'll do it. Yeah. That's amazing. That's something that I want to get more and more into. Finding creative ways to support and help communities that we're lacking in funding. Yeah. Is that your, is there a specific charity that you like to help or contribute to? I mean, there's, there's a few downtown places I stayed when I was homeless when I could get in there. Early enough was midnight mission. Wine guard center. Those are both great. Eventually my, my end goal for for this thing is, or my, I guess my goal is to have a place like that where I can teach kids, a photography like homeless kids or less fortunate kids photography and and do that. That's, that's my, that's my goal. That's my goal. I would love to have a center in LA to do that. It must be kind of a trip to to think back and look back over where you've come from to where you are now. Yeah. How do you view success? And when you were not at the place you currently are at, did you have an idea of what success looked like for you or or a life that you wanted to live? I had no idea. I mean, the way that I grew up. It was doing, it was doing illegal things to to for your own gain from monetary gain. And that's what I learned from my parents. My mother was gone from a very young age. She was in and out of my life. She was a drug addict. The very first thing I had to do in life was, Kick heroin, I was a heroin baby. And my dad was a part of a motorcycle group that weren't very nice. So my, my upbringing, the only person, the only constant person that that ever instilled in me any good was my grandma, who I had just passed away a couple months ago. And yeah, I mean, that's just the way I grew up is drugs everywhere in my house. I'm trying to go to sleep at like 70 years old going into my room and people having sex on my bed, like my house was the party house. And so that's kind of like how I grew up. So what was the question again? I just kind of like went on as tangent. Yeah, it was, well, it was coming from that place. Did you even think about the future and a life that you wanted to live? Honestly, from a very young age, I didn't think I was going to make it to 16. That's just kind of how I grew up. And so no, I didn't, I didn't know. And getting into photography. I went through a whole bunch of stuff. I went to jail. My father and my dad's footsteps. I went to jail for a few more than a few times. And did my own thing on the streets. I did drugs for a really long time. I got into selling and this very last time that I got arrested. I went into this rehab facility. And the judge either gave me a choice. I was going to do a really long time in prison or go to this rehab facility for two years and try to better my life. And I was once again trying to play the system. I was like, okay, I'm going to go into this rehab facility and continue to do what I do. And about four months in there, I started to change. This guy that I knew from the streets, that was even crazier than I was. I kind of grew up around him with my dad. He came in there and he started to change. I was like, maybe there's maybe I can do this too. And that's what I started to do. I started to change. And then fast forward, I went back to school. I got a degree, my MFT. And I went to, I went and started doing therapy for kids. Counseling kids with drug problems at few facilities, boys homes, private, privately owned centers. And got depressed about getting paid for doing this stuff. Which happens to some people and kind of fell into photography. I was, I was very depressed for a little while. Instagram came out. I found this guy from Detroit that I really liked his stuff. And yeah, it was, it's history from there. I think that's what it's all about. It's just finding those mentors and people that you can look up to. And when we can see that other people have done it and paved the way before us, but it makes it feel more possible that we can do it ourselves. So from saying that the first person, when you were starting to turn things around or at the very beginning, kind of helped you to realize that this was even possible. Yeah. There was a lot of self down in the beginning. Especially where I grew up from artists, like, you're not going to be an artist. You're going to be a fuck up. That's what you're going to be. And it was, it's very looked down upon where I come from to be like a photographer, a painter, or they just talked a lot of shit about it. They just talked a lot of shit about it. And from the very beginning of me picking up that iPhone 4 and going out on the streets and taking photos, there was a lot of self doubt. I didn't think it was going to turn into a career. I just knew it was helping me with my depression. And that's basically where I started. It's just something to help me with how it was feeling because no one else could help me. And you were actually using your iPhone. You weren't. It wasn't like, you know, while I'm here, I'll take a photo. This was a camera. And you were going out and you were shooting out like that. That was my camera. Yeah, for sure. For sure. Looking back on it now, I haven't taken any of the photos down off of Instagram. But I like to see the progression. And sometimes I'll go back and look. And it's just like, wow, that I can't believe that I actually put that out there. But I keep it up there. I keep it up there. That's so important. Yeah. There is such an urge and a desire even for me to take down some of my old stuff. Yeah. And I had some stuff when I was in college, where it was just the cornyest videos. Just cheesy over the top. But at that point, I thought I was being really creative. Oh, yeah. And you just overfilled through the shit out of it. Yeah. You just destroy the image. Yeah. But it's, you know, you're growing and you're exploring. You're, you're definitely like pulling inspiration from other people more if so than you are creating your art at that time. Definitely. How did that progression go? Like, and why did you keep going? Like, you truly enjoyed it. I really enjoyed it. Like I said, it was helping me with my depression. A lot of the reason that I kept going. And I really appreciate it is some of the people that followed me early on. Give me a lot of one inspiration and two. They would say, wow, that's cool. And I'm like, looking back on it now. I'm like, you're lying to me for sure. But thank you. But thank you because it kept me going some days. But I think sometimes it's also like, that's cool. Or that's great for you at this point. I think that's okay to set. Yeah. And it's like, you're not always saying that's great compared to the work that I'm doing or whatever. But like, I do that's so important is to encourage people that are starting out. It's hard to give constructive criticism. Like at that point, because I think the best constructive criticism is just keep going. Keep making stuff. Keep putting it out there. Yeah. And I think they saw my progression too. And I saw my progression. Yeah. Like you said, I thought it was, I was being very artistic. And these, the way that you used to edit these photos is just crazy. If you ever get a chance, go and look. I started to go back into your Instagrams. I love looking at like the old stuff, but you've produced so much. But I'm like, dude, I was doing it for so long. That eventually Instagram stopped. And I was, what's the deal with my phone? I was doing it on the desktop. It stopped loading. And then it's like air. Yeah. I think I got back to 2016 or 15. So I don't know how much when you started 2012. Okay. So I had a ways to go. Yeah. Have you always been that consistent since back then? Yeah. Yeah. I tried every day to put something out there. It's funny. Like now I have a library of photos. Just like that'll never go on Instagram. Maybe they will. But I mean over 300,000 photos in my library. And that's even after deleting a lot of like on the, I'll never use this. But yeah. I mean a lot of the stuff is just for me. I like to shoot for me like those. I have like an in with those. Biker groups and I go and shoot that kind of stuff. Um, which I love because nobody else can get in there and shoot it. Um, stuff like that. Yeah. I go and shoot stuff like that. That's always got to be. One of the hardest things about photography and about filmmaking is access. Um, access and finding the right location. And finding the the right place to shoot. Yeah. And it seems like you being a product of LA. A lot of that came naturally to you. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Um, for sure, growing up in LA and doing. It's funny. Like my past life helps me with my life today. I did a lot of traveling around LA. It, it comes back to selling drugs. Like you have to find these like weird little spots to meet people because you can't keep the same spot. Because if you do couple catch you, um, people start to catch on. So you have to like find all these spots around LA to meet people. Um, and that's insane. It's kind of embarrassing, but it, it helps. It helped me. Like that's crazy. Yeah. So you map the city because you were dealing drugs. Yeah. And then now, but you little did you know that that was your first location scout. Right. Exactly. It's crazy. Yeah. I never thought of it that way. I mean, I never looked at a sunset before photography. It's just like that. Okay. Cool. See, that same thing for me with, with filmmaking. It's like, when do you, like, I would do like these sunrise sunset timelapse. Right. And the first one I did, I was like, holy shit. Like, I've never sit down and watch the sunrise. Yeah. I was always sleeping. And then it got me to not only see that. And I think that's probably when you start to be like, holy shit. Like, not only, it's not just about the photo that you're taking. Right. The video that you're shooting. It's about the whole process. Yeah. It's inspiring. I mean, it's funny. I listening to myself now and thinking back to where I was. It's like, wow. Are you really saying that? Cool. But like, watching a sunrise is inspiring to me. It's a beautiful. You're up before most of the world is up or your world LA is up. And it's kind of cool to see that just is the beginning. You know? It's hard to vulnerability is definitely a part of my work. And it's something that's started to come natural. I don't think it's easy when you first started to like talk to people and have a platform for people listening to you. Because growing up, you just kind of hold that stuff down. Yeah. And then vulnerable is a sign of weakness. Right. And then you realize as you get older, that that's actually because of that. Because everybody else is kind of holding it back. It's refreshing to hear. Yeah. You can actually speak their mind and be true to themselves. That's when you can create your best art. And you can also connect with people. That's definitely. Yeah. Definitely. So as you're starting to progress and you're working with your iPhone. Do you see where this is going? And at what point do you? I'm curious about like when you start to turn it into a business. Something that you can actually do full time. I didn't realize I could turn it into a business until a company hit me up and said, would you want to do some work for us? I mean, it was, it was Instagram based. My first couple jobs are like, okay, we want you to come shoot this, but we want you to post it on your Instagram. And when that happened, it's funny. It's, I got very inspired by that and I just started going after it. I was still working in, in the field, like, very depressed. And I kind of just quit my job. And I mean, now I work. I still work with boys homes and stuff like that for just on my own time. Not getting paid for it, which I love. But yeah, that's kind of what inspired me in the beginning. It was just like, these people offered me like $1,000 to post something on my Instagram. I'm like, okay. Oh shit. Yeah. That's a lot of dope for your first paid project. Right. And I was like, this is okay. I could do this. I could do this. I mean, it hurt, it hurt me for a while. I was making no money for a while, but I just kept out it. And those feelings of doubt came back when I wasn't making any money. I'm like, should I be doing this? Should I not be doing this? But all I did was spend every day on the street, every day on the street, exploring my city and taking photos. While I had like other people in my ear, like my dad, it's like, what are you doing? Why are you doing this? Now he's like my biggest fan. And yeah, it's cool. Yeah. It's cool. So you take 100 photos. How many of those are actually good enough for you to release online? I would say about two. Really? Wow. When I first started, when I first got my first camera, I would go out and I would take about six to seven hundred photos in the day. And sometimes I would only want to use one of them. But now it's kind of reversed where I could go out and just take like 40 photos. And I can use like one or two. My, I guess, has kind of been. I guess refined to where I can see what I want and capture it quickly. And I don't have to take as many photos now. But some days I still go out and just snap photos of weird things because I'm like, Am I missing something? You know, it's just like my head is constantly going. Am I missing something? Is that texture cool even though like people on Instagram won't think it's cool? Or I don't think it's cool right now, but I might think it's cool in like a week. I kind of shoot some, some things I shoot for the future. Especially like street scenes that are kind of boring, but like some are some of my favorite photos. You look back to the 30s or 40s in LA. There's just like a normal street scene. But it's so cool now. You know, because nothing looks the same. People aren't dressed the same. Those buildings aren't there anymore. Those cars like you'll never see on the streets again. Or some carriage or like, you know, even like shooting a previous right now in 50 years. It's like, what is that thing? Yeah, or like a Tesla. It's like, how is the first one? Right. It was like the, the forward, like the first forward car. Yeah, exactly. It's, I never thought about it like that. But what can be just a regular photo today can be a masterpiece in 50s. Exactly. And I've been thinking like that for like the last two, three years. And a lot of the stuff I don't show on Instagram is those photos or, you know, it's just something that's going to be cool in like 20, 30, 40 years. Sometimes you can get surprised to when you come back and you look through. And that's the most exciting part for me is that you go out. You shoot all day where we shoot this podcast and then I capture it all. And then I'm like, oh, shit, that came out really good. Yeah. Yeah. Even the conversation we're having right now, you forget the intricacies and like, Right. The wisdom that's packed into it. And also when you go back and you look at it on your computer, you can start to see what is worth sharing. But you didn't realize it necessarily in the moment. Right. Exactly. I'll go back photos. I shot three years ago. I'm like, wow, I shot that. I can use that right now. Yeah. It's cool. It's definitely cool. You said you have 300,000. About, yeah. Somewhere. You have to take one or two. How do you keep all that organized? Like, I'm actually curious about the, you know, your process of organizing the photos. And then also being able to go back and pull them out. Yeah. I have a bunch of external hard drives that I keep them on. And some days, like, in the morning, usually I just sit in bed during coffee and go through them and kind of see what I've done over the years. And see if I want to use a photo today or like edit a photo. I love editing too. Like, a lot of people hate it. It's like, one of my favorite things to do. It's a big part of your work. A huge part. Yeah. I love it though. I mean. I do get it. You're really good at it. Like, I'm like, shit. When I look at your color grid, I'm like, it obviously isn't apples apples with video. It's a different editing tools. A little bit different. Yeah. I just want that. I know you do some presets and stuff like that. I'm like, I just want that preset for video. Yeah. But I, is it, do you work through from presets a lot of times? Or you, you kind of a lot of times. A lot of times. But I, I save a lot of my presets. Like, I'll, I shoot a lot of the same way. Like, and that's important for making presets if you're going to do presets. You have to shoot in the same kind of light. Same settings on the camera. And then it usually work. Give or take, like, you might have to take some contrast down or highlights. But yeah. Sometimes, sometimes presets that I've made myself or sometimes I'll start from scratch. Is this in Lightroom? Lightroom, yeah. Lightroom, yeah. And then, what's like the look. Like, all your photos do have a consistency to them. Like, how do you develop that style? Is that just evolves over the years? I think it's just evolved over the years. And I shoot, like, two stops under. Okay. I shoot darker. I shoot. Yeah. The regular photographer would be like, oh, man. You're shooting way too dark. That's not how you should be shooting. And it's like, this is how I shoot. Yeah. Now, there's no. That's what gets me sometimes. It's like these artists or photographers. They preach, like, there's no rules in art or photography. But then, all of a sudden, they're giving me these rules. And it's like, I totally understand there aren't. I don't think there's rules. I think you should shoot what you like and shoot what you see. And that's it. There shouldn't be any rules. To me, there's no rules. I think if to remind yourself of that. Because I definitely find myself falling into certain habits and routines. Yeah. That keep me, that don't keep me as flexible. Right. Well, I got to do it this way because that's how I did it for the past 40 episodes. Yeah. When, I'm like, well, actually, if I change this tiny thing. To get even a specific example, like for the longest time. And this sounds trivial. But it had this kind of pretty profound realization for me. That that freed me up to kind of create and really stuff whenever I want. But essentially, like, on my thumbnails for all the videos that I would create and, like, the actual soundcloud thumbnail for this podcast, I'll put the actual episode number in. And sometimes, you know, like we were saying early on, I record a lot of podcasts. And, you know, this week I'm doing three. And then, but every once in a while, I'm like it, you know, somebody, well known. Or some, an episode that I'm really excited about that I want to push tomorrow. Where I want to push the next week. But if I create 10 episodes and they all have this time, this actual number on them built into it. A rule that I just made up in my head. All of a sudden, I have to go back. I have to read edit 20 photos if I want to release this one early. So recently, I'm like, why don't you just remove the number? Like, why don't you make up that rule for myself? So I remove the number and then now I can, I can schedule these in. But I can also push back the scheduling. It just makes my life so much easier. More flexible. Yeah. But, and then, I guess to the other end, is that rules help to give us some guidance. And like, you know, obviously, if we had to reinvent the wheel every time we went out to make something, it would be near impossible. Because even shooting two stops under is like a quote unquote rule, or at least a guideline that you've created for yourself. Right. But it's also, it's rethinking and knowing when to tweak the recipe. Right. Most definitely, especially in the end, that shows up in my work too. It's like, I can't shoot two stops under when I'm shooting, for like, a data or jaguar. Like, they like that really clean look. I get to put a little bit of my style into that, especially with how I shoot the car or the shoes or the model or whatever it is. I get to put, like, my little spin on it with my angles or, or editing even sometimes. But, yeah. No, for sure. You're right. You're right. You can't. Those are kind of rules for myself. Yeah. But I mean, like you said, you define those. And like you said, you can also change it up if it doesn't fit the exact situation. It just takes a little bit of mindfulness to be able to step back and look at your process. Yeah. And feel when things aren't working. Yeah. A lot of times we get so busy and so caught up in our everyday life in this, especially as creators to keep putting stuff out, keep creating that we don't actually look at the process and which we are creating. Right. No, that's true. And sometimes it's that process that, I mean, that's where the art comes from, right? Like even when you're editing, there's a process there that it's subtly changes from photo to photo, but yeah, it's a process nonetheless. Yeah, definitely. I feel like a lot of the the way that I shoot or edit some days, how I'm feeling, you know, especially my edits, like some will be happy and some will be very moody. And if you pay attention on Instagram, you kind of know how I'm feeling that day. Yeah. Yeah. That's great. So when you're starting to actually build this business, like you get that first thousand dollars from this one client. And you said it was it slow to build after that. Like it still wasn't like, hey, now we're rolling now, you know. Yeah. Yeah, it was, it was very slow. There was, there was certain points where I was ready to give up and someone, it's weird, someone would hit me up and be like, hey, do you want to do this thing for a couple hundred bucks or like 500 bucks or a thousand bucks and it would keep me going. I mean, What really kept me going was how I got my first camera. I couldn't afford a camera. I really wanted to get a camera. And I was in Las Vegas visiting my aunt. And if you've ever been to Las Vegas, you know, there's slot machines everywhere, even even in like 7 or 11 sort of like gas stations. And I, she gave me some money to walk to, it was, I think it was a mobile gas station. I can't remember the gas station. And there were some slots in there. And there's, when I walked in, I noticed this lady playing on the slot and she like moved over to this next slot. And I had a little bit of change left after getting what my aunt wanted. And I put it in a slot machine. And I won four grand. And at that time, there was the biggest like camera show. I think in, I think in the States was in town. And I went right over there and I bought a camera. I bought my first camera. Get out of here. And that kept me going over the, like, over the years and months where I was like ready to give up. I'm like, no, I think I'm meant to do this. I think I'm meant to do this. And that's what kept me going. It's just like, who does that happen to? You know, I've never won anything in Las Vegas and all of a sudden, I want enough just to cover what I wanted on a camera and lens kit. That's pretty crazy. That's insane. Yeah. That's an amazing story, too. It's just that sometimes you don't know when you're going to, when you're going to get lucky. Yeah. When it's finally going to pay off. Right. The work that you're putting in. And then you get that first camera. And then I'm sure you don't take, take it for granted. Right. And you're just like, shoot like crazy with this thing. I wouldn't. I went nuts. Right after I got it, I took a, I got my aunt and I was like, Take me up to the, it was like, I can't remember the name, but it's like right outside. It's a red, red rock, national park maybe. Yeah, yeah. I've been there. Yeah. I had her take me there. I was like, there was like donkeys there while donkeys. I was shooting wild donkeys in the field. Not anything I really even wanted to shoot. Just wanted to mess with it. I was so excited that I had my first camera. Yeah. I don't like that. What was the camera? I was a Nikon D610. Yeah. Yeah. That was just from that first. Yeah. Yeah. At first time was there a reason why you went with that camera. I just, I've played with other cameras over the years. Like Canon and, and, but I don't know Nikon. It just feels right in my hand. And the, to me, it may, it may be totally in my head, but I feel like Nikon images are sharper. It's been made totally in my totally in your head. Yeah. Yeah. And I feel that, dude, I feel that way sometimes too. Where I see somebody else though, they shoot with something, or they film with, you know, whatever camera. And I'm like damn, it looks so good. But then when I shoot with it, I'm like this looks like garbage. Yeah. This is not the camera for me for whatever reason. It's just not a lining. Exactly. And I've always been the kind of person too. The reason I went with Nikon in the first place was at the time on Instagram. Everybody was shooting with Canon. And I've always been the guy to go the other way. Yeah. I'm like, no. Yeah. I'm going to get Nikon. Do they shoot? Yeah. Now I'm the guy that just follows along. Like, everybody was Canon for a while. And then Sony came out with these cameras and I'm like, All right. I'll do something. Yeah. But I do like experimenting and trying different cameras. I mean, at the end of the day, obviously, a tool's a tool, and you can use with whichever best camera is the one that you own. And dude, your first camera was the iPhone 4. Exactly. So I know that better than anybody for sure is just like, just whatever you have. And I always tell people that. Yeah. It's like, a lot of people ask me, what camera do you use with camera do you use? And I tell them, but I also tell them, like, just use what you have. It's not, you don't have to get the exact same cameras mean, even if it's the iPhone. Yeah. I mean, it's fine. Even the recent iPhone compared to the iPhone 4. Like crazy. What? Yeah. The quality is unbelievable. It's insane. But I wonder, are we getting, I don't know, for some people, they kind of are discouraged by that, because then everybody can shoot at that quality. Like, what would you say to somebody that is like, well, and that, you know, I don't want to just shoot with an iPhone with my iPhone because it's going to look like everybody else's photo. Is that even true? To me, that's not true. I feel like unless you're going out specifically trying to make it look like everybody else's photo, then I don't think that's true. I think everybody has their own eye. And if they follow that, it won't look like everybody else's. We're all individuals, and, I mean, we're all different in ways. And if you're not, of course, like we said earlier in the beginning, you kind of have to like base your style, because you don't have, at least for me, I didn't have anybody. I didn't know about photographers. I was like, I didn't grow up like that. I didn't. I had no idea who Steve McCurry was or who was my favorite photographer, by the way. Oh, for those that don't know. Yeah, for those that don't know, he is my favorite photographer now. But yeah, I didn't know who these people were, so it was like, what are these people doing on Instagram? And I would try to maybe put a little spin on it, but for the most part, it was kind of what other people were doing. But no, I don't think that's true at all. I think you can go and do different stuff. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's the best advice just getting started out is just see what other people are doing. Yeah. Like copy it, whatever. Like don't actually steal, don't actually take the stuff that they're making, making your own stuff. You know, if you see a beautiful sunset that they shot and Los Angeles and you live in LA, go to the place where they shot it. You want to take a similar shot or use your own eye there. But early on, I mean, I would just, especially the film stuff. I would just like, I saw somebody shoot footage of their backyard. Yeah. That's dope. They really killed that shot in their backyard. Yeah. So then I'm like, when I got my first professional camera, I went out and shot my backyard. And I did it in a similar way and I had a similar color grade to it. But I learned. Yeah. And then that was the first thing I made. I was going to build upon that. And then eventually over time, you're going to come up with your own stock. Exactly. What fits with you? Exactly. And that's the progression. And looking through my stuff, online, you can see the progression for sure. And I've kind of like reinvented myself several times. Like if you start from the beginning and go to what I am now, like sometimes I've come back to what I did in the beginning and other times like I'm just like on a sunset take. I was just like, I fucking love this sunset lately. I'm just going to post sunsets and shoot sunsets and other times I'm like on skid route shooting homeless people and talking to them. Yeah. It's weird. It's been a weird ride, honestly. For real. It's been a very weird ride. It's taken me to a lot of places that I never thought I would go. And yeah. It's got to be surreal. Very surreal. Very surreal. I mean, like I said, I thought I was going to be dead at 16. I'm 32 now. And I'm still here and creating stuff and getting paid for what I love. And I mean, look, I can be here on a Tuesday. You know, most people are at work right now doing what they don't like to do to be completely honest and frank. There's a lot of people that don't follow their dream. And I got, I was very lucky. I got the chance to do that. And I went through a lot of stuff in the process. But I mean, I made it out the other side for sure. For sure. I'm not exactly where I want to be. But yeah. I'm sure there's a lot of people out there that are currently dredging through something that they don't like. I mean, a nine to five job, whatever it might be. That's not fulfilling to them. Right. What advice would you give to people that want to take that step? Just don't know which direction ahead. I mean, I feel like they need to have that direction before they actually take the step. You know, I kind of fell into photography because of depression and having it help with that. So I don't know. That's a hard one. That's a hard one. I feel like they'd have to have the direction first. And everybody's journey so specific. It's hard to give that kind of blanket advice. Like if somebody came to you and was asking, what would you do if you were in my position? The one thing that I do say to people is be very calculated. Take risks, but be calculated with your risks. Right. Because I graduated college with a hundred thousand dollars in debt. Like just in this whole where I was like, I have to be very smart about the decisions I make because I made bad mistakes in the past and look where it put me. Yeah. Like I don't have the freedom to get up and move wherever I want or take any job that I want because I need to take a job to make money. Right. So like how can I get out of this whole that pushed me in the direction I wanted to head. Yeah. But eventually you can start to take risks as you start to be a little bit more safe. I think, you know, it's a balance of being safe and taking risk and pushing yourself at comfort zone. Yeah, definitely. I mean, and I mean, as far as being a photographer, I wouldn't say yes to everything to just like, even in the beginning when I wasn't making a lot of money. Like I felt like I was worth more. And looking back, I probably wasn't. But I just had that, that I just had that about myself. I'm like, I'm worth more than they're offering. I need this money, but I'm going to say no anyways. And so like, that was a lot of like, I put that on myself, you know, just like, I needed the money, but I'm going to say no anyways, because I feel like I'm worth a lot more. And that that made me go out and work that much harder to get to where I feel like I actually have worth something now in the photography world. This is the hardest thing to do when you don't have the money and you don't have the projects coming in. Yeah. But that was for me undoubtedly the most important thing to do to further myself. I've always just gone with my gut. I tried to as much as I can. I can't say always, but as much as I can, I tried to. I tried to for sure. She's always went with how I felt. I mean, so yeah. And the further and further you get along, the more you're going to be saying no to things. And more, I mean, dude, I'm sure you get hit up all the time. And you have to continue to like, no, sorry, doesn't fit. Yeah. And most annoying one of these like watch companies, like, we'll give you this watch that's retailed for like $80, but it was made for like five cents. Yeah. No. That's great. Yeah. Everybody. Oh, I love the ones that are like, it'll be great if you're real. Like it's not, you're not going to get paid, but it's going to be really good for your real. Yeah. I got a few ideas of my own that will be good for my real thing. Exactly. Um, exactly. It's great exposure. No pay, but great exposure. Okay. Thank you. It's, it's very easy to say no to those things. Yeah. I think, you know, especially in the beginning, like the advice would be, uh, don't take projects for free unless you're really passionate about it. Right. It's something that really aligns with your vision and you have creative control, like, don't just do it because somebody asked you to do it. Yeah. But times you can feel compelled because we're all, we're good. Most of us are good people and we would just want to help people, but at the end of the day, uh, you know, if you're running a business or you're trying to further your craft, you have to be thoughtful about the projects you take. Yeah. And I mean, it's a very hard thing to do though. It's very hard thing to say no, especially if you need the money. Yeah. For sure. But how have you navigated that as you get hit up more and more? How do you approach saying no? Um, in what way, like, So say somebody, I know some people like have just certain, um, blanket responses, but like people email you or they hit you up on Instagram, and, uh, they ask for something, whether it's to work with them or it's to, like, do an interview or something like this? Yeah. Uh, when you don't want to do it, how do you say no? Because obviously, like, you want to be tactful, and you also want to be respectful of that person. Yeah. I mean, sometimes you just can't respond to everybody, but the people that you do want to actually continue a relationship with, you have to be almost soft with them now. Oh, yeah. For sure. I mean, I, and that's something I had to learn over the years. Two. I was never very soft. I was very, like, blunt and honest. And I would hurt people's feelings. And didn't really understand that I was hurting people's feelings until, until now. It's like, I wasn't around a lot of people that were very nice. Um, and it didn't matter to me if I hurt your feelings or not in the beginning. Um, but now it definitely matters. Um, just being respectful human being is very important to me. And, um, so yeah, it's very, you have to be very light sometimes with people. Um, especially, I, I don't know. I mean, to continue the relationship, it just, be like, I can't really do this now, but I would love to do something with you in the future, or something like that. Yeah. Especially online, you have to be a little bit more delicate because it's very easy to be like, uh, sorry, not now. I like an email. Something right. Because I mean, they're asking for your attention. Yeah. And I try to be really mindful and lately, I actually just recently started this book called Deep Work by Cal Newport, incredible book about eliminating distractions. So everybody's trying to vibe for our attention. Our email inbox gets, you know, filled up throughout the day. And man, me, like, I would check my email. I must have been a couple hundred times. Like, just like, because that's just what you do. It's just you get into this habit. Yeah. You're going to have to check in Facebook, Instagram, whatever. And we just keep everything in and out, in and out. When we could be working on something that's actually going to further across. Yeah. We're not actually like, I don't think most of us experience deep joy when we're in our inbox or when we're on Instagram. Oh, for sure. So we need to be able to organize that time. And that's something that I've been trying to do when, like, scheduling my social posts and, uh, saying, all right, I'm only going to check email twice today. Once in the morning and then once at night. Right. Oh, man, like, it really, it clears my head. And it allows me to focus on the work that I need to. Yeah. I mean, my inbox used to be at zero. Like, if you looked at my phone, it would be zero. Because I would check every time something came in for sure. I mean, if you look at it now. Let's see. What's it? That's great. 11,320. Yeah. That's great, man. So you got, you got a busy day ahead of you. Responding to all those emails. I won't be responding to all those today. Um, how do you know, do you just go, this is probably comes back to your gut. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. I mean, I do feel bad not responding to everybody, but I mean, I mean, I get a lot of emails. Yeah. That's, that's probably over the last couple, two, three months. Yeah. You know, I'll eventually go through it. But, um, but yeah, it comes down to a gut things. Like, oh, yeah, I've seen something from this guy before or, or that's a project I want to do. Yeah. Well, you've got a very big following. And so that's also tough because you have more and more people that are watching your stuff and then want to reach out to you in some form or fashion. Right. And the, the further you progress down this journey. And if more people and more people continue to be become interested in your work, it's just going to be more difficult. And you can't reply to all of them. A lot of Tim Ferriss has got to go to one where he's got like an auto responder. I mean, he's got like secret emails and shit that he doesn't share with anybody else. But, uh, because I'm, he actually showed his email inbox recently on a podcast. That I was watching with a ritual who was on the show. Oh, yeah. And, uh, 300,000 in his inbox. And that's like one of, I think that's like one of his hidden emails. But, because he doesn't respond to anybody, he has an auto responder. Which I think is great. Like his auto responder basically says, you know, uh, due to the high volume, I'm likely not to respond. If it's about this and this and this, I'm definitely not going to respond. He's like, I'm not doing book blurbs right now. Sorry. You know, it's awesome. But I'm like, that's great. And when I get really busy if I'm working on a film, I'm probably going to do that because it's just easier for people. And also like, you can actually soften it in that way, right? Like preemptively where you don't have to do it every time. I'm going to be distracted. Yeah. It's, it's, we're going to distract the world right now. Like it's so easy. So much easier to open up your phone and go on social media than it is to sit down and do the work. Yeah. How do you stay focused and, you know, kind of resist that poll? You mean like going out and shooting and stuff? Versus going on social media and like not creating. Um, I think it just comes with with who I am. I just, I love it. So I do it. You know, the, the pull to create is very, very strong. Like if I'm not, if I'm not creating, I try to take basically I try to take one photo a day that I really like. So even if I have a super busy day, I go out and do it anyways. Like if I, like yesterday I had, I was working for 12 hours. I was, I was with a friend shooting. And I didn't get to create anything that I like that day. So I went out at night. Like I, I went, I went home took a shower. I ate because I hadn't eaten all day. And then I went out and walked around my neighborhood until I found something that I liked. And that's, and that's what I do. I don't, I don't know exactly what that is in me, but it's just a pull to create. And it's not, it's not like a ruler anything. Like we were talking about earlier. It's just, it's what I feel like I have to do. Mm-hmm. I think it's the book called All Right on Writing. He said, he just sits down and writes every single day. Yeah. No matter what, no matter how much time it is, he just sits down and he forces himself to write that for a sentence. Yeah. This guy is crazy though. He'll do it on the holidays. And like a Christmas morning. He'll get up and write. And like, that's great. But doing that. And I find that same habit for me with exercise. And I'm like lifting. It's, if I take two days off in a row, I, that's my rule, right? Where I'm like, I will not take more than two days off in a row. Because if I do, that third day is so much easier to add on to it. Right. That eventually, all of a sudden, what? It's been two months and I haven't been to the gym once. Exactly. And that's the same exact thing with creating art. Where if you're not consistently creating it, you're going to lose that steam and you're not going to. Most definitely pushing stuff out. Most definitely. Um, you said you're not where you want to be right now. Yeah. Where do you have a vision of where you do want to be? Um, I mean, I do say no to a lot of things, but I, I always just have this vision of like, because I have a, I have a few friends that are very successful photographers and they're like, they're like, oh yeah, another, another email came in or, or my manager just hit me up and these people want to pay me $20,000. I'm like, no way. Like, what do you mean, man? Like, pass them over, you know? Yeah. Pass those over to me then. I guess, I guess that's like, maybe not a selfish vision, but it's just like, I kind of want to get to that point where I just can work on the stuff that I really want to work on. Um, I do a lot of the stuff that I do is stuff that I want to work on like, I work with Jaguar and Dietis all the time. It's like, I love working with them because they give me the creative freedom that I like. And it's cool, but just like, I don't know seeing some of my friends just like, it's kind of like a little hidden goal of mine to get there to where they're as just like, I can say no to a $20,000 job, because I want to work on something that I want to work on today instead of like working for money. Yeah, it's not necessarily getting the $20,000 project. It's being able to say no to that. And that's a huge step for any creative. Yeah. I think it comes with understanding that you don't need that project. Yeah. Like, I think it also takes, it is taking risks as well because recently I stopped doing client work to just pursue these projects. Which I don't make any money doing this podcast yet, but I'm like, I have a vision for it and what I want to do with it and where I wanted to go. But it was a big risk. I'm actually at that point where I'm like starting to turn down these big projects that are $20,000, and every time I get that email and I'm like, I'm like, just do this one. Should I do this one? It's rough. Because man, it's damn good money. But the path I chose is so unguarantied. But it's also, I know it's going to be so much more fulfilling. It's going to be, I have to go down this route if I don't take a stab at it, if I don't try it, then I'm going to regret it. Yeah. But, and also knowing that you can always go back to that. Like, shit, man. If for whatever reason, two years down the road, I'm like, all right, you know what? I'm going to have to start picking up some client work to fill in the gaps. Great. Like, I can totally do that. For me, just the knowing that I went for a dream, even if it didn't work out, it would have been worth more than that, 20,000, 30,000 dollar job. In myself, it's like, I don't want to look back and be 60 or 70 and be like, why didn't I just do that? It's just like so dumb, you know? It's like, I talk to a lot of elderly people and they inspire me, they really inspire me because it's like, some people did what they wanted to do and some people didn't. And both of them inspire me. It's just like, I don't want to be in a nursing home when I'm like 70 or 80 and be like, man, I should have done that. I shouldn't have done this. It's very cliche, but very few people do it. You can't do everything. Like, as much as I would love to take the project and do this podcast and, you know, create films as well. You physically can't do everything. Yeah. So that also, it just comes with stepping back and saying, all right, what do I want out of life? What do I, what's the life that I want to create? Sometimes it means taking money and taking the project. Sometimes it means pausing and fulfilling a passion project. Life isn't so black and white. It's not so easy to say, hey, take this path. They're going for it right now because right now might not be the best time for you. But if you miss two days at the gym. Or, you know, if it's been so long where you haven't created your art, then you really got to start thinking in word and thinking, yeah, all right, man, what are the steps I need to take in order to not have any regrets at the end? Man, that would just be the worst to look back. Because once you're older, like, you know, sure you can have success later later in life. But I don't think you should wait around or expect that. Oh, once you retire 65, then you can start fulfilling your passion. And that's like a majority of your life down the journey. Right. And I don't want to be that person. I think it helps for me, too, that I had a lot of regrets in my life. I've done a lot of crazy things that I regret, but excuse me. So yeah, I think that helps. That I've had those regrets pretty early on and kind of can kind of see past that now and not want to have anymore. In the whole, you know, what's funny is like just looking at your photos and actually just like looking you up online. I saw that there have been some people that have stolen your work and it's like, it's a weird world these days now. Yeah. You put stuff out there and then you have these famous people or anybody. Dude, I mean, probably every photo you take hundreds of people are pulling it and putting it up on their own Instagram account. Oh, yeah. I love that you don't do watermarks. I feel like, yeah. Yeah. I feel like that, man, if we could just inspire photographers to me it's not to use watermarks. Yeah. Just in my own mind, it might not even be true. It just very pretentious. This is me, you know? I just don't like it. It's almost like, not, I'm not spiritual, but it's like this is sacred. This is like your art. This is when you're putting out into the world. Yeah. And then you're going to put like a blast of logo on top of it. It's like the last thing the world needs is another logo on a picture. Exactly. And one of my friends is a photographer I laugh because he does sell prints. But he says something similar to that. It was like, because he never signs a print. He'll never, he won't. He just won't do it. Like, and he shoots a lot of cool people and I want it. I wanted him to sign a specific piece and he's like, no. And we've been friends for a while. Yeah. And I'm not signing it. Like why not? And he said something similar to that. It's like, I don't need to put my name on it. Mm-hmm. People who know, well, no. You know, I don't. It's not important to me. Yeah. And with that, so you have people that will like, well, we'll still, and, you know, post it as their own work or post it without attribution. Do you, like, how do you feel about that? Like, I mean, obviously, when somebody doesn't give credit, that's like the ultimate, we can call it dick move. Yeah. Like, that's a dick move to steal somebody's shit and then not actually not give them credit for it. Um, how do you feel about people actually crediting you? Like, posting your work elsewhere and giving you credit. Is that also, uh, found upon in your perspective? It, it used to bother me a lot more. Um, but now, like, people, I get DMs and emails. Like, oh, yeah, your photos on Pinterest and Twitter and, like, it's been reposted like 10,000 times or retweeted. I don't have, I do have a Twitter, but I haven't been on in years. Um, I don't have Pinterest. The only thing, the only social media that I'm on is Instagram. Um, not on Facebook or anything. Um, and my stuff is reposted to these other sites. I, I feel like, because they know of not on it. Uh, a lot. They know they can get away with it. They know they can. Yeah. And not, I get all these notes from my, great, the people, the great people that follow me is like, really following me closely and like, know my work. Yeah. They, like, seek that shit out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I, I really appreciate it. But, um, to be honest, it just doesn't bother me anymore. It's just, it's, it's kind of a form of flattery. It's like, that's cool. They thought it was cool enough to, to repost or, or put up on their own Instagram. It's like, it's fine. Yeah. How I view it is that, um, even if somebody was taking credit for it. Hmm. They're never going to be able to make it. Exactly. If you just keep copying my shit, you're not going to be able to make it yourself. Yeah. Like, you know, just taking my stuff. Um, obviously if they're like selling it or making money on it, that's a problem. Which is try to stop that. If you can, if you have the power to see, no, that's a different story. Yeah. Yeah. I don't even sell my own prints. Right. I'm sure people do that, right? They do. Um, there's, I can't remember the name of the website, but recently, they're, they've been caught and for some reason, it, it's legal. Why? Yeah. Because of like, Instagram's, something on Instagram, like, in the copyright, whatever it is, like, you accept that. Once you put it out there, it's like, it's, it's kind of property of Instagram. Um, so was Instagram? They were the, it was like, no, it wasn't Instagram. It was another. Oh, but then like, you couldn't see Instagram would have to. Right. Right. And they're just not going to do that. Yeah. That's fucking crazy. So on the computer, I guess, there's, there's a way to, to, it's not a screenshot, but like, screen grab and get, like, full, almost full, um, resolution resolution on it. And you can print it out. Oh, I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. But there's, yeah, I mean, it's probably something, there's, might be an app or some kind of code where you can just, yeah, plug in. I'm sure, like, my brother, he's pretty good with code. Like, he could pop in and figure it out. Yeah. Yeah. Um, shit. I never even thought about that. That's insane. Yeah. It's not that you can do about it. Yeah. Yeah. There's like this guy out there making money off of my friends. Yeah. I got to sell my own. I know. You know what, though? Um, there's Leo Babbata. He's got a, like, called Zen Habits. He was in our documentary. Yeah. But I'm amazing guy. But he uncopyrights all of his stuff. So anything he writes in a book. He's like, he has a little thing beforehand. He's like, this is uncopyright. And so you can take anything. You can take anything repurpose it. Reward it. Rephrase it. Quote me. Don't quote me. Although I would appreciate, you know, you to attribute me. Yeah. And I work. Um, and in a way, I guess that frees you up. It's not the smartest business decision. And it's not something I personally would do. Right. But it's, I think you do have to let go of the fact that you can't control. And like the more success you get, the more that there's going to be people trying to rip you off or profit off of your work. But you have to just let it go. Ross is going to kill you. Yeah. Yeah. I definitely didn't come into this world to worry about that. Yeah. Yeah. Um, let's see here. In terms of like, when you're scheduling these posts and putting them out in the screen, like I'm starting to get better at that. And like, finding apps that can help me to schedule this stuff because, you know, as content creators, we're putting stuff out on a regular basis. Yeah. So, but it sounds like, do post just in the moment every day, like you said you go through your stuff, you don't schedule things in advance. Sometimes I all, like I said, I love editing, so I'll edit several photos. And sometimes I don't sleep at night, so I'm just like editing. So I'll have, I'll have photos in my phone to, to be able to post. But I don't schedule out like, I'm going to post this one this day and then that one that day. I don't do it like that. It's kind of like I said earlier, it's just how I'm feeling that day. And then, most of the time, I'll sit on my computer in the morning and try to kind of edit how I'm feeling that day. Hmm. It's weird. It might not make sense to some people, but it makes sense to me. But I like about that is that it shows kind of in the moment or in the day, like, how you are actually feeling. Yeah. Versus, scheduling something a month in advance. And when you're putting it out there, it's, you don't really get a feel for what's happening the moment. And actually, like recently, you've been doing a lot of the stuff with the fires here in Southern California, which is like, you know, those are moments that are happening right now that people should be aware of. Yeah. That must have been a, like, pretty fucking insane to shoot that stuff. I mean, I've been doing it for a little while. But there's this show on Netflix called stringers. Have you seen that? It's basically about these people that are, they sell stories to the news. But it's like overnight stuff because news companies aren't working then, unless it's something like crazy. So every story that you see on the news in the morning or from these guys that, like, made up online and went to shoot these shows. And I've been doing stuff like that. I have, like, a police radio. I mean, I'm not selling stories to the news. I'm just doing it for myself. I haven't put any of it out on Instagram. But that kind of stuff excites me. Like, it sucks that there's, like, this huge fire in California. And it's, like, messing up the air and, and, like, killing animals and stuff. But, like, it's there. It's happening. And I'm going to go get it. And it excites me to go shoot that kind of stuff. Yeah. That is crazy. It's crazy. It's crazy. That's, it's just finding the stories, too, which seems to be, for me, as a documentary filmmaker, finding the stories, it can be challenging. Right. But it's, like, you said there's ways to, to see it. Is that how you, you get inspired by these things? Like, you see, it's just like, you come across it. You saw this show on Netflix. And, you know, oh, shit. Let me turn that out. I mean, I've been, I've been doing it before I saw the show. But, um, it definitely re-inspired me to go out and, like, get these kind of stories, like, they're in content and lots, like, waiting for crazy stuff to happen. So they can sell it to news companies in the morning. You know, like, and that's their living. And that's what they do for money. Um, but me, I just, uh, that kind of stuff just excites me and inspires me. And, uh, I want to go out and do it. It's got to be pretty thrilling, too, to it is. Because, like, I mean, you were taking some of these photos where you're on the highway that's closed down. Right. I was just walking. You're kind of like walking on that. Yeah. And, like, hanging out behind the firefighters as they're going to, to put out a fire. And it's like, um, to be there in that moment. Everybody else is watching this on TV. Right. Especially here in LA, everybody's like, oh, shit. Like, uh, this is a fire that was right here. Yeah. It's a skirt ball fire. Mm-hmm. It's like, oh, okay. I got up. I'm looking up the trade winds. I'm like, is that shaking to be coming over here to Hollywood? Right. Uh, all of a sudden it makes it so much more real. Yeah. But making it really real is like, you being there and actually seeing it. And it kind of puts it in perspective. But then also, it's, it's great to be able to, to share that, that story in that message with other people. And to be able to put on your Instagram account. Right. For other people to kind of see your own take on it. I feel like I feel like the news and watching the news. Like, people have come, become so, uh, the sensitized and like when someone like me, um, if you follow me on Instagram goes out and does it. It comes a little bit more personalized because you like, you follow my work, you like my work. Um, yeah, that's just how I feel. It's a little more personalized than like watching it on the news. I think that's where it's eventually going to head. Like obviously the news is such an outdated system. Yeah. And even like the voices that they put on. Right. Welcome to ABC news. Oh, they also have the same. Like, blah, blah, blah, blah. Like it's just certain cadence and how to talk. And it's like, well, that's not a real person. Right. And we're starting to, it's very robotic. Yeah. We're not, I don't think we're, we're, we're there anymore. And, you know, so over the next five to 10 years, I think that's going to change radically. And I think it's going to be more personalized. Yeah. We're like, shit. If everybody has a microphone, everybody has a camera. Everybody has all these tools that they're disposal. Like you, that go out there that share their story in their own way. Mm-hmm. And that's going to be how we get our news. Yeah. I think it also, like, there's a lot of responsibility in that. Because you have an organization like New York Times or the Atlantic. And they have these very strict protocols for how they tell a story. Right. And we need to make sure that we instill that in people that are like just starting out or that are creating or that have a platform. Yeah. Like there's certain values and integrity that you need to uphold when you're telling a story. Yeah. So you tell the real story. Yeah. So you tell the real story. I mean, a lot of stuff like my favorite photo that I took this year was from those fires. Just personal favorite. And they weren't telling any of this on the news or anything. I don't really watch news because I don't believe everything that's on there. And this certain photo that I took, it was prisoners from prison. They were helping with the fire. Like, I don't know if you saw that photo. Yeah, I did. And it was all prisoners helping. And they don't talk about, they're not going to talk about that on the news because I don't know why. But yeah. It's just those stories they just get lost because they don't, they're not. And that's informational. It's important to me because like, I mean, they talk about the firefighters, but they don't talk about, they don't talk about these. Yeah, I'm about to use it. Hold that up here. I can get on this. A little higher. There we go. This is shot. That's crazy, man. Fuck. If that doesn't look like World War One or something. Yeah. It's all, I mean, in those, all those guys in that field, they're all prisoners. And, um, I don't know why I wasn't talked about more. I don't know why they won't talk about it. Is it because they're prisoners and, and society has this view of them that they're all bad people because they're in prison. No, it's just like, I mean, I don't know. What an amazing little moment to capture. Yeah. I guess that's what it's all about, right? Yeah. I was surprised that they even let me, I mean, because there was, behind me in the shot, there was like, sheriff's just like riding back and forth in their cars, making sure the prisoners don't run. Don't run. But, um, to this the fog. Yeah. And get away. Yeah. But, uh, yeah. Yeah. That's the kind of stuff I like. I've just been, especially the fire. Stuff I don't know how I've just kind of before I even got the radio of kind of just like stumbled on them and like got there before the firefighters. And, I mean, this one in the arts district last year. It's like this propane factory. And they have like all these propane things and they just kept blowing up and I was there before the firefighters. You just like heard it outside. What'd you see it on like the, on the radio? No, I didn't have the radio then. I was just driving by. It's like things happen around you every day that that most people will miss like, I mean, obviously you're not going to miss a bunch of propane tanks blowing up because it's really loud, but my point is it's like, if you're out there every day, if you're a photographer or artist, even like a painter, if you're out there every day, looking for inspiration, it's all around you. And that's kind of how I stay off social media a lot and like not pay attention to it is because I know these things are happening around me and the more I'm on my phone, the more I'm going to miss. Hmm. Is that why you bring your camera everywhere? Yep. Everywhere. Everywhere. I don't leave home without it. Yeah. I like that you don't do this strap either. I don't know. Dude, yeah, I've done that. Like I've been out of sitting at a helicopter without a strap. Oh, yeah. Where I'm like, I got a grip on it. I'm not going to drop this there. Yeah, definitely. Yeah, I don't. I don't go anywhere without it. I mean, even sometimes I'll take it, not sometimes. If I go out to dinner, I have it with me. I just don't know when that moment's going to happen. You know, I don't want to miss it. Yeah. I've missed too many of those moments because in the beginning, I wouldn't bring it everywhere with me and I've missed a lot of stuff. And I'm just like, that's never going to happen again. Yeah. I think it's a beautiful example of where life and work can be won. A lot of people are trying to achieve a balance, a work like balance. But if you really love what you do, I can just be a part of your life. And it doesn't need to negatively affect it. Right. No, for sure. All right, man. I think that's a good place to do some little round. We call quick questions. Okay. Quick questions, not quick answers. So feel free to elaborate if you want. But we'll get into it here. What one book has had the biggest impact on your life? It's funny. It was a kid book, the Giving Tree. I don't know if you ever read that book or a kid. Yeah. What was it about the book? Just like the Giving Spirit. You know, like as a kid, I didn't, like I said, I didn't have that growing up. And it's like basically it was only my grandma and stealing good in me. And she's the one that like read that book to me all the time. And kind of instilled in me the Giving Spirit. And I feel like that's kind of what I'm put on this earth to do. It's like help give back and share. So, and that's what I'm doing with photography. Where do you happiest? When I'm behind the camera. Where do you go when you're feeling down? Feeling doubt? I go to my dad now. I go to my dad. A lot of things have changed in that relationship. And yeah, I go to my dad now. That's great. It's so important to have family and friends that you count on to go to. Because I feel like we all go through doubt. We all feel like we're not sure if we're on the right path. And just to have a sounding board. Just for somebody to listen as the most important thing, I think. Yeah. What drives you forward? In photography, getting that next moment, the next photo that I'm going to love in life. It's just people, people inspire me to go forward. What's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow? Stay true to yourself, listen to your gut. We might as we talked about it briefly. We could talk about it now. But as you know, I'm trying to get the rock on the podcast. And it's just been just like, I'm glad you appreciate this challenge and this whole so much. Because it's been, this is like my biggest dream. This is like if I'm trying to shoot for something big. This is it. Like how crazy would it be if I could get the rock on my podcast? Yes. So do you right here? Yeah, man. So I guess I'm curious if you have any advice for me as to how I could convince the rock. I've got, by the way, just to fill you in, I've got a website. Yeah. Let's go get the rock on Matt's podcast.com. You made a whole website. Hey, man. I think you're on the right track of just like not giving up on the drink. Yeah. Well, the thing is like making it real and literally just talking about it from me makes me feel like it's like it might happen. Like if I just had this idea in my head and I never told anybody. Right. I don't think any chance it's going to happen here. I can show you the website here. I've actually, my favorite thing about it. So that's, this is like the main website. It's just a part of my other website. But that's all. So to get the rock on Matt's podcast. I made like videos. And I made this big tweet button that if you click on the button, it auto generates. And there's like 10 to 15 different tweets at the rock. Really? So I've had like hundreds of people plug in and create the rock. See, look at it. So it'll be, it'll just create like an auto generated. My brother is like really good at code. So he like does also kind of code for it. I was like, yeah, I feel like it's going to happen for you. You do so. I just do. Yeah. I feel good about it. Also because I'm not like taking it that seriously. I'm like, this would be just really fun. And I've got some on patient. So if it's five years down the road, I consider that a massive wind. Yeah. But yeah, we'll see. We'll see. We'll keep you posted on it. Yeah. And then you can come through and take some photos of the rock. That would be awesome. Yeah. So two more questions. What one thing should people read watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight? Read watch or listen to. Listen to this podcast now. Yeah. There you are. Yeah. I'm thinking on that. Maybe something that's kind of inspired you. Recently inspired me. There's a documentary. I can't remember the name of it. But I think it might be called street. It's all about street photography. That would be the thing to watch. Yeah. Do you know where it's at? It's on Netflix. Yeah. Okay. I'm going to check that out myself. All right. Check out that documentary. And last thing before we go, if people want to connect with you online. Where do they go? Either send me an email and I'll get to you eventually. Or that I mean, honestly, the easiest way is just DM me because I try to go through those much as possible. You can ask anybody. I definitely get back to everyone on there. Or just leave a comment on a photo. Really, I get back to everyone. I try to, especially on my photos if they take the time to comment and write something nice. I definitely get back to them. I think that's probably one of the good things about being so specific about the platform and which you decide to create on. Where you just have Instagram. Right. So if you're managing five accounts, it may be more challenging. Yeah. Definitely. Cool man. All right. Well, thanks so much for coming on the show. Thank you for having me. I really appreciate it. Right on. That's the show for today. I'm incredibly grateful to Cole. Please check out his Instagram account and send him some love via direct message there. I'm sure he will love it. The ground up show is advertisement free. Why? Because puff daddy was wrong. It's not all about the vengeance. It's all about standing up for what you believe in. When I wrote that, it didn't sound as corny as when I read it. But either way, I just, I believe advertisements are lame. And what I want to do is promote advertisement free world. But in order to do that, it needs ratings. As you know, as I've mentioned on this podcast before, ratings help to boost the visibility of the show. It really gets the word out there and it gets other people excited and interested in pressing play on that first episode. So head over to iTunes. Leave a quick rating or a preview for me. Your support means so much. Let's see. What else do I got here? Oh, and how about a final reminder? If you want your question answered on this show, then record that video. Send it to HelloMadeDevelop.com and then I guess tonight will help you get to the bottom of your problems. That's it. Thanks for being a part of my journey.
