# Living with a Non-Minimalist
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xQXrxQDFICo
Help keep this channel ad free:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella

I'm a minimalist. My girlfriend is not. This is how we make things work.

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** minimalism, minimalist, living with a non-minimalist, family, friends, minimalism with family, living together, life, simple living, clutter, declutter, living with less, simplicity, simple, lifestyle, lifestyle design, non-minimalist, not a minimalist, hoarder, things, important things, stuff, clear, conversation, talk, girlfriend, partner, boyfriend, relationship, relationships, film, filmmaking, sketch, comedy, laugh, funny, hilarious, australian, american, australia, america, 
**Date:** 2018-02-23

## Transcript
 People ask me all the time, how do you as a minimalist live with somebody who isn't a minimalist? And it's a really tough question to answer, but it's an important one. And for me personally, it all starts with timing. I wait until Natalie follows a sleep, and I cover her ears with noise canceling headphones and play a minimalist mix tape that I created. It's a collection of soothing voiceovers, minimalist poetry, and any better soundtrack to into the wild. Minimalist mix tape following one. Less is more. Also, make Matt more sandwiches. What's the deal with the bag of clothes? Something came over me, I just decided to get rid of a couple of things. Wow, that's amazing. Minimalism is starting to... You hungry, I made a sandwich. Um, so that's obviously one way to do it. Oh, sorry, Matt. So we're making a video right now about how to live with a non minimalist. Oh, it's really cheap. Is that going to be a good transit? It's going to be terrible. Yeah. Give me the clap. And action. So the question is, how do you make it work? How does a minimalist and a non minimalist live together? And I've brought a real life non minimalist onto the channel. You didn't really know what minimalism was when we started. Oh, yeah. I thought it was a cult. It actually is, and I'm taking on memberships this year. Um. Yeah, I definitely thought you were a little bit strange, but I knew that I'd met. I mean, I met Matt on Tinder, so I was like, Where everyone has living in New York. Everyone has their weird quack. So I'm like, I guess he's a minimalist. Right. I learned to look past that. I guess I can. And you did. I think like the thing is, it can be challenging no matter what. Like any relationship is going to have its challenges. And the whole idea of minimalism is to look past the stuff. Yeah. And I think like for us, our biggest challenge was when we moved in together. Um, you know, for the first year of our relationship, we went living together. And that was actually quite easy to get through because that would just mean me coming over to your place with one bag of stuff. Or you coming over to mine with one t-shirt. Yeah, but early wearing the same thing. The walk a shame. Um, but when we moved in together, that was kind of like a true test. Yeah, and I think there was like some growing pains. I'm just learning to live with each other. Yeah. Um, I think actually the biggest thing, like say like with the actual stuff in our apartment, um, we're both very respectful of each other's opinions and taste. Uh, when we're buying big purchases when we're buying like this couch behind us or a coffee table or the bed, or whatever it is, it's not like one of us just goes out and buys it without telling the person. There was the occasion when Matt had to actually return a rug that he'd bought because I thought it looked so heinous. I might have been. I might have been. Actually, I think it was for my office. So I was like, I'm just going to buy it and then I'll get it. And then I put it on. But your office is in our apartment. I have to look at it every day. I thought I found a loophole, but apparently it was a thing in a loophole. But um, yeah, but then that's where I returned it and then we, you know, found a rug that worked well that we both liked. Uh, and actually takes a lot more time shopping. Shopping. Like we spend quite a bit of time, um, you know, trips to IKEA, we're draining, uh, trips to Western or wherever else. We got our furniture, uh, it took a while. The biggest thing I became conscious about when I was moving in with you was that I had gotten very used to being an extremely messy person. Like if you, if you visited my bedroom before we moved in together, there was just like stacks of clothes and shoes just strewn around in every corner. I didn't even have like a makeup, like a designated area, like the makeup designated area was on the floor in the corner. Well, I would just lie on the floor in the morning and put my makeup on and put it in the mirror. You're a mess. Um, yeah, and like that was its corner. Like it lived there. Yeah. Um, so I had to kind of, um, be more conscious about how I was kind of being tidy, um, in a place that we both lived in. I, the trick that I realized was I didn't actually have to be tidy. Like I didn't have to change who I was. I just needed to create this illusion that I was a tidy person. So I just needed to like shove all my clothes into like a drawer or a cabinet and then just quickly close it. And pray to God that Matt would never open it already buried in an avalanche of like the latest Zara collection. Right. And that was fine. That was fine with me because I feel like as long as like I'm walking through the apartment and I'm not tripping over clothes or tripping over stuff. Uh, I'm happy. Yeah. But you usually do triple over my camera gear. Yeah. And that's the balance, right? Is that I have a lot of camera gear. She has a lot of clothes. Uh, we each have our own values. Uh, in terms of what we enjoy and what we spend our time with. Yeah. And I think that like from day one, you've never tried to tell me how much greater my life could be through minimalism. Except for that time, I tried to brainwash you. But for the beginning of the video. Oh, yeah. Are you ready for guys? I was actually. Yeah, lemon. Are you trying to brainwash her? Yeah. You've never tried to like change me or tried to really like it takes me to be, you know, a part of minimalism. You've just allowed me to be who I am and you've shared with me if like you felt like a little bit burdened by the clutter. Then I'm more aware of that and if someone who cares about you, I'll try and like accommodate for that. Um, without changing who I am or what I like to do or like what I like to wear or, you know, what I like to be around. Yeah. Um, but I do have to say, you know, we've been together now for over three years and spending a lot of time with you. I've found myself adopting like accidentally adopting minimalist principles. Um, not quite practices, yeah. But even when we first started dating and you were very mindful about putting your phone away when you were spending time with me. Like, that was such a foreign concept to me. Like, why would you ever put your phone away? Like, what if you got a notification? You'd want to look at it straight away, obviously. Why would you put your phone away? Um, but because we were dating then and I didn't want to like offend you or, um, be in a position that made you feel uncomfortable. Made it feel like I wasn't valuing your time. I would start doing the same thing and over time that's really helped me. Like, I've, you know, I've been able to exercise more control about putting my phone away. Um, and it really, I think helps enhance our relationships. I think you kind of, we both rub off on each other a little bit. I think the one thing when it comes to like, you going out and buying stuff. Yesterday, you just came home. You got new sunglasses. They look awesome. You got, uh, what else did you get? You got a couple shirts. This shirt. I got this shirt. Um, I got two other shirts. You know, I did, I did good. You did a good shopping. The shopping run. But like, I don't like, shun you or I don't, I don't, you know, look down on you for that. I kind of participate in that. And I actually like, I try to encourage you to purchase things when you're really excited about it. Like, the Chrissy teak and cookbook that you want to get. You're like, we're at the bookstore and you're like, oh my god. I like, so I want this cookbook. You just want me to cook for you. Yeah, that's probably the reason why. There's like a little stuff. But it was like, you know, like, it seemed like you really would enjoy the book and you're going to want it. I've never felt, I've never ever ever felt guilty for buying something. Even if it's like a silly, frivolous pepper, like, purchase that I was completely impulse. I've never once been made to feel guilty for that. Right. Because you can return it. No. No. In summary. If the question was, how do you live with a non-memilist? I would advise that person to not try to change their partner. Really, you just have to live by example, like Matt's done a really good job with me. And you'd hope that you have enough shared values and enough shared respect more than anything else. That, you know, continues to build such a great relationship even though one's a minimalist and one's not a minimalist. I think that it's due to shared respect for us that we've been able to, like, live together despite having, you know, perhaps different ways of life. Well said. You agree? Yeah. Thanks for doing the video honey. Oh, you're welcome. I'm not going to put that in the video. I don't like PDA. Thanks for watching. Subscribe for more videos. I make new content every week. Do you have a question for Matt and I about our relationship? We'd love to do a follow up video giving you completely unqualified advice. Leave those in the comments. If you want to see behind the scenes content from this shoot and others that I make on this channel, head over to my Instagram. It's at Matt Diavella. And finally, do you like podcasts? I've got one. It's called The Ground Up Show. I interviewed newscasters, filmmakers, wrappers and comedians. To hear about their stories and how they made things happen, go to groundupshow.com for that. Thanks for watching.
