# Why You Never Have Enough Time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XVL2Lj3mUj0
❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** why you never have enough time, never enough time, why do i never have enough time, never have enough time, i never have enough time, why do i never seem to have enough time, how to have more time in the day, time management, time management tips, minimalist, minimalism, time management strategies, time management techniques, minimalist lifestyle, management, how to time management, better time management, college time management, improve your time management, saying no, 
**Date:** 2019-04-16

## Transcript
 Do you ever feel like you never have enough time? Like you're rushing from one thing to the next? Do you want to know the reason why you're always late to things? It's because you're an asshole No, I'm only kidding. You're not an asshole. You're not you might be. I don't know. I'm sure that there's probably a certain percentage of people watching this video That are assholes, but it's probably not you. You're probably a good person But you just keep making the same mistakes over and over again and not correcting for it because while it's it's easier not to Not really humans are terrible at planning and poor judges of how long things will take If you get a text that says be there in two minutes that usually means ten if they say running 15 minutes late That definitely means theory now. Obviously part of this is your friend just trying to soften the blow and potentially save face But why were they running late to begin with? I recently sat down for a conversation with the author of Essentialism Greg McHughin the full one-hour interview is available for patrons at the exclusive videos here But the biggest takeaway that I got from it is planning for the unplannable my experience Am I expectation is that unexpected things will come up? Like that is what my experience has taught me you think it will be like X But really there will be things you didn't plan for and that's exactly why you have to create buffer in the system That's why you should not take on every project you think you can do Even if you're interested even if it's a line in our life. I want to be able to make progress I want to make steady progress. I don't want to have huge stance and stops Yeah, it's the consistency that produces incredible breakthroughs And buffers keyed absolutely key to doing that. I love that idea of building buffer into the system And it's something that I've done in both my personal and work life over the past few years For one travel always takes longer than you think when you rather show up at the airport one hour early or to a dinner reservation 15 minutes before you need to just to make sure that you're not stressing out on the way there The risk of missing your flight making your friends way or losing the reservation isn't worth the few minutes it takes to plan ahead The worst case scenario is that you wait in your car a couple minutes before you get there Oh, and if Google Maps says it's gonna take you 20 minutes to get there and you leave 20 minutes before you need to get there You are an asshole. You're gonna hit a few red lights. You're gonna run into traffic You'll need to find parking. You need to walk from your car to the restaurant You're gonna get stopped by someone who had their life changed by your cold showers video. Okay, that's not true That's literally never happened but the point is that there are always gonna be things that you can't plan for that will eventually come up As a freelance filmmaker, I would do this all the time with budgeting Whatever I thought the budget was going to be for a project I would double it because it almost always took double the time Then I thought it would this might sound crazy to you right now But you're probably undervaluing yourself most people that I talk to most freelancers creative most people in general Don't give themselves enough credit and therefore undercharge But if you continue this race to the bottom you're gonna end up with both less time and less money Whether you're a freelancer or you've got a full-time job think about the last project that you had Did it go like you planned how many revisions did they ask for how long did it take for them to get you feedback early on? I had one project Specifically that just Wouldn't and it was the simplest project you could imagine it was maybe a 10 to 15 minute video it was four days of filming it should have taken a month. It took two years The client kept pushing back kept rescheduled scheduling kept coming up with different ideas for some reasons They just wanted me to be miserable and they wanted to stretch out this project as long as possible How could I possibly have planned for this but I could have and I could have put it in writing in the contract And I could have made sure that I charge more money than I thought I was going to need to because it always takes more time Now there's no doubt that when you're getting started out You're gonna have to say yes to a lot more things You just simply don't have the opportunity yet. You don't have the skills yet the connection the resources you have to Take as much as you possibly can you have to say yes to basically everything but then there's going to be a point Hopefully where you get better your skills are a little bit better You maybe are more interesting so more people want to hang out with you. You have more friends And eventually if you just keep saying yes if you keep going down this path You're gonna have no time for yourself and you're not gonna have any room For buffer. That's why you need to plan ahead and I think that's the the biggest idea here that Greg McEwen had It was it's not just about being late to things It's about the things that you say yes to it's about actually Potentially not going out on that date to begin with or not going to that restaurant to begin with So I think the key is How to not have those projects in the first place be careful what you take on don't take it on just because you can don't take it on Just because it's good make sure it's the right thing at the right time for the right reasons Then when you get to execution there's buffer built in so you can actually spend the extra time you need to Currently most of us are in debt when it comes to our time But when you're selective about the things you pick up when you think twice before you say yes Then you start to feel much less rushed You'll feel more relaxed and you'll have much more time for the things that are essential Thanks for watching if you want to get my full one-hour interview with Greg McEwen You can get it at patreon.com slash mattheabella in addition to that interview you'll get access to other Extended interviews I've had for this channel you'll get behind the scenes content about how I make my videos Why don't you actually go in the back and then we'll we'll do in practice because I can see that you're you don't You'll get a personal look at my life through my vlog and you'll get to ask me questions in my secret AMA podcast. Thanks for considering it really means a lot to me and of course if you do not have the money right now Please don't feel pressure to contribute. I really appreciate the fact that you guys watch my videos. I'll see you next time
