# The Death of the 40 Hour Workweek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6jpmzJq4ts
Visit http://storyblocks.com/mattdavella to get access to an unlimited library of over 1 million royalty-free assets.  Thanks to Storyblocks for sponsoring this video ✌️

The 40-hour workweek hasn’t changed much in the last 87 years. And that’s probably why it’s not working. Here’s why we need to rethink how much we work.

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 CREDITS
Directed by Matt D'Avella
Produced by Shawn Forno & Matt D'Avella
Cinematography by Kariza Santos & Matt D'Avella
Edited by Spencer Torok
Design by Carly Berry & Madeline Wiggins
Research by Janessa Tan
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, work, workweek, 40 hour, productivity, mental health, burnout, overwork, work life balance, 40 hour work week, 4 hour workweek, 
**Date:** 2021-10-21

## Transcript
 The 40-hour workweek hasn't changed much in the last 87 years, which is probably why it's not working. Originally designed for factory workers and laborers in the 1930s, the traditional 9-5 workweek has been the status quo for so long that most of us don't even question it. It's like gravity, or the fact that your uncle John always posts his Google searches as his Facebook status. Today, having a full-time job means that you work at least 8 hours a day, 5 days a week. With a few weeks off to go to weddings, celebrate your cousin's kinsineta, and maybe squeeze in a trip to the desert to look up at the stars and wonder when it is that you stop dreaming. Just me? Okay then, moving along. There are other ways to get work done that are actually proving to be more productive than the norm. The last two years have shown us that you don't need to go into an office and sit at your desk for 8 hours every day to be productive. As millions of jobs move online and across time zones, it's becoming clear that when you work, or how many hours you log in front of a screen isn't nearly as important as what you get done. Call it the great resignation, the rise of remote work, or just a bunch of people realizing that you don't have to punch a clock to satisfy a 100-year-old idea of what counts as good work anymore. The 40-hour workweek is almost dead, and for millions of people, it's never coming back. Here's what things might look like for the next generation and how we can all start to rethink our relationship with work. The first quick word for my sponsor. This video is brought to you by Storyblocks. As a professional filmmaker, I have insanely high standards when it comes to every clip that I use in my videos. And so when it comes to using stock footage, I'm not just going to use any run of the mill b-roll. I need the goods. And that's where Storyblocks comes in. Need an aerial establishing shot? They've got the goods. Close up of an espresso machine, they've got the goods. Waves crashing ice skating, sheet flapping, they've got the goods. With a Storyblocks unlimited, all access plan. I've access to over 1 million assets of royalty-free video, audio, and music. My favorite part of Storyblocks is their Restock Initiative, which is aimed at quadrupling their library of diverse and representative stock footage clips featuring people from black, indigenous, and LGBTQ plus communities. Storyblocks plans are flexible to fit any budget with access to their ever-growing library of diverse stock footage options for any project. Visit Storyblocks.com slash Matty of Ella to sign up for an unlimited plan today. You can use the link in the description below this video. Big thanks again to Storyblocks for sponsoring this video. Have you ever wondered why pretty much every job? From carpenters to accountants and filmmakers just so happens to require 40 hours of work a week. To understand how we got to this as the default setting for most professions, we need to take a step back. During the Industrial Revolution, advances in coal power, technical innovations, and mechanized production allowed more people to produce more goods at lower costs in dramatically less time. Factories were able to use economies of scale to create a ton of stuff, and they went nuts with this newfound power. Unfortunately, this economic boom was made possible largely due to an abundance of cheap and disposable labor. It also directly created the current global climate crisis that may end society as we know it, but hey, we got two-day shipping. So, good trade off, right? In the 19th and early 20th centuries, it was common to work 12 or even 16-hour days, six or seven days a week, often an uncomfortable and unsafe conditions. Workers had basically no protection, and no leverage to ask for better wages or work environments. People could lose their objectively terrible jobs if they missed even one day of work because they had dysentery or the black long. Needless to say, most people in the 19th century didn't love Mondays, or basically any other day of the week. Uh-oh, sounds like somebody's got a case of the Mondays. Starting as early as 1817, workers in the US and UK began to strike and organize for better conditions, shorter hours, and liberal wages. Some of the biggest strikes in labor riots, like the Haymarket Riot and Pullman Strike, involved hundreds of thousands of workers, but conditions rarely improved. Ironically, it took the guy who revolutionized the moving assembly line to change the way we thought about work. Henry Ford famously adopted the 40-hour work week in his factories as early as 1926. When asked why he didn't force his employees to work insanely long hours and pay them next to nothing, he gave two simple reasons. One, longer hours actually decrease productivity in his factories, and two, he wanted to sell more cars. He once famously said, it is high time to rid ourselves of the notion that leisure for workmen is either lost time or a class privilege. The way that Ford saw it, regular folk, couldn't live meaningful lives, or you know, by his cars, if they never had time off to go anywhere, so he gave them shorter days, better pay, and something called a weekend. Ladies and gentlemen, the weekend. As far as Ford was concerned, a shorter workweek wasn't wasted time. It was essential to the economy, and it was good for his business. He saw a lower turnover, and was able to recruit better talent by providing these rare benefits at the time. Eventually, Congress and Big Business agreed and passed the 1938 Fair Labor Standards Act, officially creating the eight-hour workday and 40-hour workweek. It's worth saying that passing the Fair Labor Bill and creating a 40-hour workweek was a good thing. This law established things like pay time off, weekends, minimum wage, overtime pay, and he made working conditions for the most brutal jobs people were working during the industrial revolution. But the way that we work has changed a lot in the last century, and the 40-hour workweek has an aged well. Things are a little different than they were 80 years ago. There's no more polio, doctors wash their hands before surgery, and your uncle John can find his fetish in three seconds flat, even if it's just boobs. Now what do you do for a living young man? Oh, I make videos on the internet, and my life goal is to interview a professional wrestler, turn movie star. Oh, I work 18-hour days on the weekend, and the habits in the sun in three years. Hey, new subscriber. Sweet. It's objectively a good thing that fewer people work in dangerous, unregulated minds, and tetanus riddled factories. But I can't help wondering, why are people in a society with high-speed internet? Geoposition satellites, lightning-fast laptops, and smartphones that are more powerful than the rockets that took men to the moon, still working like it's the great depression. Here's the thing about the 40-hour workweek that managers don't want you to know. Working 40 hours a week doesn't make you more productive. So over the past few months, I personally hired a small and awesome team of remote employees and freelancers for my new company slow growth. We work across so many different time zones and schedules that the idea of working a traditional 9-to-5 schedule would be laughable if not impossible. Worst, asking them to work 9-to-5 would be a waste of their time and mine. A recent study showed that most people only spend about 45% of their time at work doing their main job duties. The other 40% of workers' time was spent dealing with meetings, administrative tasks, and interruptions. And a whopping 14% is spent sending, responding to, or sorting, email each week. If you're doing the math, that leaves 1% which I assume is people scrolling their phone in the bathroom. Not exactly cutting edge productivity. Today we're going to be talking about PowerPoint. And it only gets worse if you work more than 40 hours a week, which I'm guilty of more often than I'd like to admit. Multiple studies have shown that working beyond 40 hours a week makes you less productive. And one of the key factors comes back to something called the deliberate practice theory. This theory basically says that if you're new at something, you have about one good hour of high intensity work in you at a time. Can that sit? More experienced professionals can crank out about 4 hours of productive work. But beyond that, any work that you do won't have the same high impact or quality. After the 8 hour mark, everyone becomes less alert and commits more errors, possibly even undoing some of the good work you've already accomplished. But the 40 hour work week gets worse than just sloppy work. Because it turns out that if you work 40 hours a week or more, you might literally be working yourself to death. A 2016 study from the World Health Organization estimated that over 745,000 people died from stroke and other heart diseases as a direct result of working 55 plus hours a week. Several CDC workplace studies have also linked over time hours with increased sickness, risk of death, and more on the job injuries. That's a long-winded way of saying that hundreds of thousands of people are working themselves to death each year. And we're only talking about 55 hours. Many of you watching this video right now work so much more than that. In Japan, workaholic culture became so common during the 70s that they coined a term for it, Karoshi, which means death by over work. Ultimately, the 40 hour work week is rooted in industrialism. It's about efficiency and tracking productivity, which works great in an assembly line. And when the 40 hour work week was creative, you could leave work and go home. But things start to break down in the modern workforce when you apply an hourly model to jobs that don't rely on regular work. Or worse, expect salary to employees to work longer hours with no way to track their overtime. Like working 16 hour days in an unventilated factory, we just shrug off these circumstances because that's just the way things are done here. But it shouldn't be. It's about time that we start rethinking the status quo when it comes to how we work. Luckily, countries and businesses around the world have been experimenting with alternatives to the 40 hour work week to help keep you happy, healthy, and well, not dead. Iceland tested a 32 hour work week, often called the 4-day work week. From 2015 to 2019, and found that productivity stayed high while jobs had a satisfaction sword. A New Zealand-based management firm did the same thing, and found employees were more energized and more creative. Attendance was better, employees were more punctual, all while keeping productivity at the same level as the traditional 40 hour work week. Ryan Breslow, CEO of Bull, a tech company valued at $4 billion. Recently announced in September that they were the first tech unicorn to switch to a four-day work week. His reason, he wants his employees to work like lions, not cows. I personally work like a mere cat, but hey, to each their own. Breslow argues that most jobs today are set up to encourage the same day in day-out work regardless of the real world. Worker sit at their desk raising, instead of spending shorter amounts of time working on things that really make an impact. For Ryan the 4-day work week isn't an if for most companies it's a win. Monograph CEO and co-founder Robert Yen has been on board with the 4-day work week since the company started back in 2016 for a number of reasons from productivity to the health and well-being of employees. But at the end of the day, their midweek weekend, they take Wednesdays off, is all about results. It's not so much about time, it's about output. So if an employee can successfully handle a sufficient workload in four days, what they might have previously produced in the standard five days, there isn't a strong enough or necessary argument to get employees to work another eight hours. Flex time is another popular alternative to the traditional nine to five work week, where you set the hours for the day based on your work demands and personal preferences. Want to start at seven a.m. so you can clock out before three p.m. to pick up your kids, no problem. Need a two-hour lunch break to run some errands on Wednesday, no sweat. Need a few weeks to follow BTS around on tour? Wait, that sounds awesome, but it's not really what we're talking about here. Flex time hours are especially great for remote workers and people that may need a slightly more flexible schedule due to child care, time-shifted schedules, or other reasons. It's also great for people who don't want to wake up at the crack of dawn for no goddamn room. But the main benefit of Flex time schedules is that it encourages employees to accomplish tasks and hit goals, not punch the clock. You are rewarded for just showing up and sitting in an office all day. And if you finish your work early and get a jump on the next week's work, you're rewarded for it. The point I'm trying to make is simple. The 40-hour work week was never intended for the kind of work most of us do today. Yes, it was a great first step, but the 40-hour work week was never meant to be the finish line. There are enough studies that show just how bad overwork is for your productivity, let alone our health and relationships. It's time to pronounce the 40-hour work week officially dead and exchange it for something that puts the life back into work life balance. And that right there is 40 hours. I work 18 hour days on the weekend and I haven't seen the sun in eight years. Good. I look good.
