# The Art of Detachment // Ground Up 082
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yjT1AV5HRQk
Tatiana DeMaria:  https://www.tatianademaria.com/
Support this show on Patreon:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Tatiana DeMaria is a talented musician, singer & songwriter. She's topped the charts with her rock band TAT & has produced music for television & film.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-10-10

## Transcript
 Welcome back to The Ground Up Show. My name is Matt Diavella. I'm your host and today I'm sitting down to chat with musician, singer and songwriter Tatiana De Maria. I said that like it was a different. It's just De Maria. It's just, I totally screw up her last name. Anyway, she is incredibly talented, creates beautiful music. She's composed for film as well as television and her new solo work is absolutely incredible. I encourage everybody to go check it out. On the podcast, we talk about why you need to think critically about your time and things that you're attached to as well as your life commitments. Very engaging, interesting conversation that I think you guys are really going to enjoy. But first, if you've gotten some value out of this podcast, I would love it if you could contribute on Patreon. This podcast is independent and advertisement free thanks to a small percentage of you who are contributing on Patreon. You can contribute to the show for as little as a dollar and episode at patreon.com slash Matt Diavella or for a little bit more, you can get access to my secret vlogs and AMA where I answer questions exclusively from Patreon subscribers and I make videos that I do not release anywhere else. So again, check it out at patreon.com slash Matt Diavella. Thank you guys so much for watching to the podcast, to the podcast, to the podcast. This is weird. I don't know why I did that. Enjoy the show. We'll go into the story and you've got definitely a long career and a lot of really cool things to talk about. The first let's talk about what you have been up to lately. Right now, I'm super excited because I've just started releasing my first solo material. So I've put three tracks out this year with two music videos which has been a lot of fun. I'm super excited about it. And I just did the last national cross country run of the walk tour in the US. And that's a tour that's very close to home because I have a band called Tat. And we, our first sort that we ever did in the US was the Vans walk tour. And it was rock band and we basically did a thousand shows around the world on the same album. So we had sort of done Europe for three years and then came and did the US for three years. And there's a long, long time to tour one record. So it brought a lot of things up being, you know, tired of the same material but in a way still loving it and still seeing new audiences and seeing how it packs and audiences. And so this summer was amazing. So this year's been great in coming full circle. And the solo material, something I've been working on behind the scenes for a long time. So it's been amazing to be able to take that out there to the Tat fans who've been with me for a long time. And to take new music and a new sound out to new fans. So that's what I've been up to this year. I've got more tracks coming. So I have another track coming out on September the 28th called Make Me Feel, which I'm very excited about and which also sounds very different to a lot of the stuff in the past. Yeah, it seems like the originality is something that can be more challenging the longer that you've been in the game. So when you first start out, it's kind of like, you know, you have everything to talk about. Because you never put out a record, you never made a video or film. And then the further you get the deeper that you dive into these topics, the more that you want to push yourself to come up with something new. Because you don't want to keep saying the same stuff over it, right? I want to say the same stuff over and over and over and over and over. But I mean, the hits will be the hits, right? They're always going to be like those songs that are that classics. And then do they get old though, like say playing the same shit? Well, I mean, it depends. This sort of what you said is incredibly on point in terms of, you know, I also wrote my first album when I was 16. So every topic to me was also a new in life. I was like, oh, wow, this is something I've just discovered. It's a thought I've just had. And at that point, you're still finding your place in the world. You're still finding your passions and you're still inspired by a lot. And I think that's something that we kind of forget as adults. We so used to being kids and being inspired so easily that, you know, you get to the age of 25 and you might look around and just think, wow, I feel like I've got nothing to say or nothing to do. And I don't have any hobbies and, you know, nothing seems very exciting anymore. And I think the older you get, the more inspiration becomes a commitment and almost a craft in itself of dedicating yourself to being inspired and maintaining that curiosity. So right in the first album, my certainly felt like, okay, these are, there was a song called, I don't want to love you. And I felt like I was addressing a topic when you don't want to love someone. There we go, put that in a box. Stay up all night. It was a situation where I was going through something pretty heavy. And I had someone by my side and they seemed like, sort of just concepts that held water as far as the human existence goes. And as you get older and you experience different things, you do end up going more into depth. So you might feel like I've covered that topic of, I don't want to love you. Because now I'm in another situation where that hurts, but it's a different angle. And you realize that the broader strokes that you might experience as a teen start to get so many different colours and brush strokes as you get a little bit older and you experience different things. And you know, as a teen, I was always hanging out with people who were older and I was touring and I was supposed to go study initially, nuclear and particle physics in university. And then it became chemistry and law to free up the time so I could tour and then eventually I didn't go. So I was just touring. And so here I am doing all these things and seeing all these things and feeling like, like a lot of us feel I think at that age of having something to prove and also being like, I fit in this adult world to fuck you. Excuse me. And do you swear or fuck off? I don't know. So you get, I mean, depending on who you are, I was, I was the youngest of four and I think I felt the need to be able to kind of express myself. In the beginning you have to, you just get inspired, especially when you're young. You're just inspired to create and put something out there because everything is new. But then when the older we get, the more we have to really plan for inspiration and we have to actually sit down and do the work. And I think confidence comes into play there too because when you're in a platform of being with your peers and being at school, you have confidence in yourself for perhaps different reasons. You know, like you are trying to think back to, I don't know. Let's say you're at school and someone you like likes you back. And you are wearing cool shit that day and you just feel fire. And gradually gradually, you know, like we talk about people who have different different setups in high school than they do in real life. So there's obviously the same. You've peaked in high school and then, you know, you get into life. And so we all evolve and find ourselves at different places. So you might feel very confident at a younger age too because everything is so new and not only is it new to you, you don't realize it's only new to you. If you look back over the last 100 years, you see the lot of the concepts that you've felt thought and expressed have been felt thought and expressed before in a lot of different ways. And you start to realize that the more you read, the more you grow, the more you experience and then we were like, oh, so here I was thinking, yes, I'm saying this for the first time. And really, it's been said many times before. So I think that plays into confidence as well in a large part. So sharing my experience of writing something at the age of 16 that I was very connected to and came very easily to me and that I would come home and write every day. And a lot of the album was just freestyle though, just say stuff and it would come out or make the record. And that was it. And that was my debut album, so her lights, which we ended up touring. But as you talk more and as you start to set expectations on yourself and as you go through different processes, you and life paying bills, touring responsibilities, whatever it is, you start to forget in a way that the inspiration is still waiting for you. It's still waiting to be discovered and things don't come as easily. So that does play back into commitment, commitment to being inspired. Yeah, and when you think about originality and as you said, the older we get the more we realize we actually don't know anything. And the more we get the context and perspective that there is so much that we don't know. There are so many topics that we have yet to explore. So maybe if you're feeling stuck, if you feel like you keep talking about the same thing or writing songs about the same thing, maybe it's that you haven't experienced enough or you haven't explored enough. Well, I think at every, every age and every part of the creative process, I think we're all bound to feel like we've reached the end of a particular road. And we all get into this thing of going, okay, I feel like I'm saying the same thing, or I'm just playing the same chords, or there's always a rut that we get into. And the greatest artists out there to me are the ones that are able to maintain their curiosity. They're able to embrace change. They're able to look at something and go, oh cool, how can I keep this fresh for myself? And sometimes it comes in ways you don't expect, you know, you watch a movie, and you forgot that a certain part of you existed. You forgot that you could feel the certain way. Be it, I mean, a sad movie or even a superhero movie. You watch it and you suddenly feel like, oh yeah, hell yeah, like if this person can turn the world upside down, so random things where you never knew that you were neglecting that part of yourself. And I think that's something that happens. We sort of get into these homogeneous existence of, okay, so this is what I've been taught in my whole life, you know, pay bills and do this and do that. And whether we like it or not, there is still a subconscious programming of, by the age of 30, this is what I want to have achieved. And I think anyone listening to this podcast, I don't think anyone is immune to have had that thought at some point or still has that thought niggling in the back of their mind, whether we like to admit it or not. And your subconscious dictates your behavior. So if you're sitting here with a subconscious plan, you don't always allow your conscious mind and your conscious self to pursue what you want to pursue and what you feel you really need to pursue. So for example, you might go, yeah, I want to make crazy stuff. And yeah, I want to get really inspired and do things. But your subconscious mind, your reptilian brain is there to protect you. So let's say, and this is sort of to go a bit more into detail into why we resist change sometimes and why we don't allow ourselves to follow inspiration. So on one hand, you've got the idea of, well, I need to do is be inspired. Where do I find inspiration? Okay, well, sometimes it takes work. You have to sit down and make a list. If you sit down and make a list of 20 hobbies you've liked in life or you've done. You might find it really hard. It might take you a long time depending what age back at you're in, how curious you are and how much, how fully you live at this moment in time. I found it really hard. So if you list your hobbies, you might look at it and go, well, down I don't. I don't actually have many hobbies that I enjoy. So firstly start by making a list of 20 hobbies. And this is a little challenge for yourself. And then once you've gotten that list of 20 hobbies, look at them. And the next do it right when the last time was that you did those hobbies. Because I think there are a few different things that affect sort of how we operate with our passions, with creative endeavors and with life in general. That's time, there's attachment and there's commitment. So time, a lot of the time, we don't see it disappearing. You might look at that and I said this and I realize that's like, yeah, I go to comedy clubs all the time. The last comedy club I'd been to is eight years ago. So we sort of think we build these stories in our head and interpretations, we're interpreting machines and we've built in our head. Okay, this is who I am. This is what I do. But if you really look at who you are and what you do in practice, you might find that it's very different to how you think you are and what you think you do. Because time flies. So a few things to sort of managing your inspiration, I think, and creating is let's take the time factor, for example. You might seem to feel like you're spending a lot of time doing a certain thing. I'm a musician. So you know, I write records, I produce them and I release them. A lot of people might look at me and go, okay, so you spend your time recording and producing and releasing. But actually a lot of my time is spent doing the business. A lot of my time is spent doing deals on the back end. A lot of my time is doing stuff that's on the back end that doesn't relate to the music and it can get frustrating for me. So it's building a team as well around what you're doing. So this year I've been building my team so I can sort of delegate more and focus on what my purpose is. And for me, that's wanting to help. A music is something I'm able to channel and do and that's a way that's one of the vehicles I like to. Kind of use to express myself and to get my messages and shout out there. I don't want to say my messages in that way, but to expressing my ideas and thoughts out there. With that said, time is something that is incredibly precious and yet we don't always recognize how we spend it. So if you write down what you did every day for a week or what you did every day for a month, you might find that in your head you're thinking, well, I'm doing all this stuff and how come I'm not where I want to be or whatever. The truth is, are you really high for type of focused on what matters? So let's take the colloquial example of a mainstream musician. Let's take Drake. If you're Drake, you make music. You are Drake, you write lyrics, you sing melodies. You do a lot of stuff on the back end, but your primary, type of focused use of your time is towards writing. For example, I would hope and assume because Drake is an incredibly prolific artist. Yeah, he just got caught up with ghost trading that didn't he? I don't have you heard that. You know what? Let's describe that I said. Oh, no, I'm sure I'm sure he writes. Well, look, I think if you're releasing that many albums to a degree, you're working hard and you're being prolific. It's like getting an entertainer for example and saying they don't work hard. They might not write them music, they work hard. And the press that goes along with being an entertainer is also very demanding on your time. So there's respect for different things in different fields. But we let's take Drake back to his first album if you want to do that. There you go. Yeah. It's a great thing for you for your first album unless you have a ton of money. I mean, well, exactly. Or you just, you know, have such a pretty face and you're just like, yeah, man, I'm Drake and I'm that hot. Yeah. So essentially, let's say that Drake is sitting there going, okay, as a musician on my first album. Being a musician, if my album blows up and blah, blah, blah. If you take the commercial aspect of it, because there's something I think people can relate to and understand in a tangible way. Let's say that the musician stands to make $10 million in a year as an arbitrary example of a successful pop musician. Okay, the manager of that musician might make 15 to 20%. So scale that down. Okay, the manager's making $1.5 to $2 million. All right, cool. So then you've got maybe someone who's on salary under that, who's a day-to-day manager, who's managing operations office operations and they might be making, you know, $150,000 a year. And then you might have let's say a social media person or a marketing person or PR or whatever it is that people hire and they might be making five grand a month at that level. And so they're making 60 grand. And I say that to say, if you look at how your time is spent, what is it that you want to do and who is it that you want to be? So if you want to be a musician, you want to be creating the music, you want to be channeling your inspiration, you want to be feeling that every single day. And sometimes it's like, well, I just like making music. I don't know what music I want to make. And I've had friends who've said, I want to be creative. I just don't know what my medium is. And then we really have to scale back and do some work on ourselves and go, okay, what is it that brings you joy? Essentially is that simple. When you're in school and they say the universal truth of do what you're good at but do what you enjoy. It's there for a reason. It's not just do what you're good at. I mean, there are things I've found that I'm good at that I don't enjoy. So do what you enjoy because I think when you're doing what you enjoy and you're enjoying it in the moment, good shit happens. And I found that whenever I've just done something not only have I done more of it, so if I enjoyed writing songs, I just wrote and wrote and wrote. The more you write, the more you have to put out, the more you have to put out, the more people can hear it, the more people can hear it, the more perpetuates that sense of mattering and doing something and having a purpose in pursuing it. So with that said, when you look at where you spend your time, if your purpose is to, again, the example of being a musician, be a musician, look at the hours spent in the day. Are you doing the $10 million a year job? Are you doing the $1.5 million a year job? Are you doing the $100,000 job or are you doing the $60,000 job? And by that, I mean, are you doing all the business in the back end that isn't writing music? Are you spending all your time networking and doing PR and all that sort of stuff which isn't writing music? Are you managing your project? And there's a belief that when you're creative, you have to be a better CEO than you are creative, which in some respects is true CEO entrepreneur. Why? Because you have to manage your business in a way that gets your stuff out there and is organized and is well put into place and delegates correctly and just in terms of building a business. So you can now, in life, which is amazing, create something through on YouTube, create something, put it out and Spotify and that's amazing. And it works really well. People are built fantastic careers on doing that. Because what they're doing is generating content and hyperfocusing their time on creating what they want to create. So I'm saying all of this to say when it comes down to time, we think a lot of the time that we're pursuing something but we don't always realise that our actions are not following through with what we're trying to do. And we're not being the type of person that would achieve those goals or do those actions. So we'll say, I'm just going to do, do this, this, this, and this. Okay, but who are you being? Are you being the musician? Are you being the manager? And at the end of the year, you're going to look at your goals and you're going to say, okay. Who was I all year and what outcome did I generate based on that? And that's A from a financial perspective, but B, did you write those 10 songs in the year? Did you finish doing that work? Did you really put your heart and soul into it? Or did you spend the year calling yourself one thing but doing another? And wondering at the end of the year, why you didn't get to where you wanted to get? Maybe it comes down to the 80, 20 principle of especially when you're first starting out. And you have all these things that nobody's going to do for you. You don't have the money to do it. You don't have the, you know, you maybe aren't at the point where you can get a manager or talent representation. There's a lot of competition out there. So for you to initially break through, sometimes takes the initial creation. It takes the networking and doing the branding, doing everything that is required to say, put out an album. But eventually, as you progress, if you aren't able to then give away some of those responsibilities, you're likely going to be hurting your future growth. Because like you said, you should be thinking about what is that focus that you want to put everything into. And maybe it still is down to that it comes down to 80, 20 because there's always going to be other stuff that you want to do. You want to be able to give the creative decisions and you want to talk about the album artwork and to be able to just step back and let everybody do everything. That is a part of your brand is I don't think the best idea. But are you spending 80, 90% of your time focusing on what people come for, you know, what is it, what is it that you want to create and why is it that people follow your work? 100%. So there's also different ways to go about it because we have this belief that again, you have to do certain things and follow a traditional model to make something work. There are soundcloud wrappers out there that are just in their homes making, making mumble wrap up, loading its soundcloud and it's exploding in a lot of ways for them and creating a lot of careers. And they're not touring the world they're not piecing everything together and I'm not saying that says a bad thing at all. I'm saying that there are so many different ways to do it that we think we need to sometimes exhaust ourselves to do this and build that and I don't really like to operate by that model, where I have to create this amazing website and do this and do that and everything has to be in place and I have to act as if I was a major label. But I'm independent and it's just for me it's about I'm going to build my business the way I need to build my business that works for me. And sometimes I dedicate too much time to things that are a bit unslaring away because it really comes back to creating the content whatever field you're in. And I think soundcloud artists are really good example of the fact that you can just focus on the content and keep putting the content out there and part of being a good entrepreneur is making sure that that content is consistent. So I think we value a lot of other things and I think that comes into attachment. So we have time which is be hyper focused on what makes you matter and what you want to deliver. And then attachment which is being attached to the idea that maybe I'm not good enough or being attached to the idea that I have to be this or being attached to the idea that you need to represent something that you always thought you needed to represent. And again, you look back at your day to day. Are you really that person? Do you really need to represent that? Is that really something that matters? And you know, a lot of the time our subconscious our past stories getting the way of what we're trying to do. So the need to prove yourself or be something stops you from freely creating in a lot of ways. And then you come all the way around to commitment where. To quote Jim Forten, which I really like is, um, is to say this, well, an example of someone going to the gym and saying, okay, I want to get slim and I want to be fit. And they start going to the gym and again, new is resolution January by the end of January 90% of people have decided fuck it and, you know, it didn't work and I didn't do it and then we go the rest of the year. But there's a few people that are walking around who've stuck with it. And essentially. What happens is we want motivation to dictate a lot of things. We want to feel good about a lot of things. Want to feel like, yeah, this feels good. A lot of the time going to the gym doesn't feel good. But give it two weeks. If you commit to something every day for two weeks, at the end of two weeks, if you start to see a result or you start to feel good, you start to feel strong. That generates motivation. The motivation feeds more commitment and more commitment feeds more motivation and then you start to build. So I think there's a few factors as as we grow, we forget that we need to look for inspiration and that becomes again a commitment to being inspired remaining curious. And it becomes work to not be jaded and not get stifled. Committing your time to what your purpose is and really following through with that. Committing to failure by letting go of attachment and saying, okay, if I don't need to represent this, I don't need to represent that. Or I'm going to try and people are going to judge me anyway. So fuck it, people will judge you no matter what you do. You could give all your money to charity and people will still find a way to shit on you. You gave it to the wrong charity. You know, I mean, or someone then you find out that like some secretary in that charity, you know, like did something wrong. Fuck the charity. That's it. You're out. And there's a lot of, there's a lot. You're not giving enough, right? Well, did you, did you give enough? And yeah, there's so many different angles people take people will judge you, do whatever the fuck you want. And then lastly, you know, commitment is to me at the foundation of everything. Finding out what makes you tick, what gives you joy more importantly. If I don't enjoy writing songs, there was a period where I didn't. And I was forcing it. And I didn't, I'd look at the songs. And I just, it was itself perpetuating thing of going, I don't like the song. I don't like myself. What the fuck am I doing? Question and questioning. Committing to inspiration, committing to hang on a sec. Why is it important? Why did I get started in the first place? And the reason I did was when I was a kid, I was 14. I had a lot of anxiety and a lot of shit going on. And the only thing that made me feel better was listening to music. And I remember going, wow, I've discovered the fucking cure. This is amazing. Obviously again, I'm 14. It goes back to the fact that everything's brand new. And I was like, music is the most amazing thing ever. And I have to tell everybody that this is the cure. And in a very, very pure and simple way, I started making music in the feeling I had with every song. And every song was I had to feel when I was writing a song playing on my guitar. It had to feel the way I felt when I was completely resonating with what I listened to. And that's how I wrote my first album. And that's why I felt it came so easily because the idea was so simple to me. It was, does it feel right? Yes, it feels right. Go for it. Now as adults, a lot of the time we've disconnected from our feeling so much, we're afraid to feel. We sort of, we spend our time on social media, we're like, okay, I'm just going to watch a movie. Being alone is really hard. Being alone with our thoughts. And we start thinking, we don't always operate from a gut instinct. I think we marvel at our friends sometimes. Who would just say, well, just didn't feel right. You know, like, hang on, but didn't you think it through? What about this job that you didn't take? You didn't think of all the parameters? No, it just didn't feel right. That's it. That's the beginning, middle and end. Things that don't feel right generally and time still don't feel right. But you're still giving your time to them. So anyway, I felt like it was just the cure to everything. Followed through with it. And in time, you start to get caught up in touring. You get a bit tired. You start to think about what you're writing and you want to say more, but you haven't been living because you've been touring so much and sort of a different experience of living. And yeah, in time, you find that you might disconnect a little bit from, from your gut. And it might take a bit of commitment to, again, inspiration into yourself to come full circle and find that passion again. Starting so young, starting at 14, 15 years old, having to top 50 in the UK charts. Yeah, right, you had two songs in the top 50 in UK by 18 years old, having that kind of success that early on. Did that have a negative effect in the long run? Or was that just, did that, was it all positive? Did it allow you to then pursue music and realize that this was something that you could continue to do full time? Because I imagine, you know, a lot of times when you find success very early on at a very young age, it can kind of fuck with you a little bit. Yeah, I think there were, there were several factors, except what I will say is that I was still independent. And we had had conversations, for example, with major labels at the time. And the conversation was, we really want to, you know, we really want to sign you, will you write with this big pop artist and, you know, write your album in sort of this vein. And at the time, when I was a teenager and I was like, nah, I can't quite fuck you. But I was also like, well, I've listened to this dude's album and they all sound the same to me and it's, I'm in it because I want to write because I'm passionate about the writing. So it was an interesting process of now that I look back, I think, look at the opportunities. And again, it was all feeling based and that's what I loved about that time was it was so pure. And I was like, no, I don't want to write music like that or it was, your bandmates are older than you. And it looks manufactured. But it's not, so can we manufacture a band around you so that you can then not look manufactured? And I was like, well, it's can't, I understand what you're coming from from business perspective, but it didn't feel right to me. So there were a few things where just sort of navigating that process. So we remained independent and we did a deal with the extreme sports channel, which was awesome. And they made this hour long documentary and they blasted around the world. And it was an interesting situation where it didn't, I was working so hard and I was writing a lot. And I was doing so much of the work that it wasn't, firstly, we weren't, we didn't explode and become the biggest thing. I don't think it was an unhealthy amount of success. I think it was a good, for me, sort of light to sort of determine, okay, people are vibing your shit. This is good, um, keep doing what you're doing and get a bit of a taste of how it's, how it's being received. Um, with that said, I think if I'd had more success and had I maybe left it in the hands of other people and had I gone, Yeah, okay, I'm after the success and I'm after the exposure and let this guy rewrite my songs or do everyone's to do them. I think I would have, my simple answer is I feel like I would have hated myself. I feel like I wouldn't have been true to myself. And again, the whole point of why, what do I want to do, what does make me matter? And to me, it's just sharing my ideas, it's just saying what I want to say. It's going through shit knowing that as humans, we all feel the same range of emotions. So somehow as a teenager, I was just very clear on this notion that if I feel something, people out there are bound to feel it. I was very, I was very simple with the approach of people like so much different shit on planet earth that if three people like my stuff, I'm okay with it. And I was very, very genuinely okay with it. And I thought someone out there is bound to get it because there's so much, there's such a variety of music. So I put it out there and that was my expectation. So when things exceeded my expectation, it was great and it was really cool to continue and to pursue and build. But it wasn't so much that it hampered anything and actually I'm grateful. I'm really, really grateful that it didn't get any bigger than it did at that time. Because I think it was perfect for me to take it and keep growing. But it wasn't enough that I lost so much of a sense of myself and started relying on others within the industry. So is there also now a cap to where you would want success to go for you? Say like now venturing out and doing this solo project? It's kind of like ironic to think about you cannot control that, right? If it just explodes beyond, you know, if it just gets so popular that you have no control over where it spreads and where it goes. A lot of times in a creative field we can't control our own success. Is there a point where you'd be like, oh, I don't want to be that. I don't want to be famous. I don't want to be like walking to a grocery store where people recognize me or where I can't go out in public. Or is there, is that something that you would be okay with? I wonder if anyone's really okay with that. I think one of my biggest core drivers is freedom. And I think having my freedom to move the way I want and do what I want is extremely important to me. It's, I would probably say one of my two top core drivers is freedom. And so yeah, in, you know, obviously there have been moments in times where I'm shopping and I'm buying snuggier or something and, you know, someone will be there and like, oh, hi, and we'll be standing in line and I'm just at that point, you know, I would check my shit and I'm like, what am I buying? It's interesting. I'm like, I'm just going to hide this massive dildo. So, so yeah, there are aspects of it that I think about and I think also subconsciously we hold ourselves back. Again, your subconscious drives your behavior. So you might wonder, people have looked at me before and asked me different questions in terms of, you know, a new record or come out or something will be happening and I'll be buzz and they'll say, okay, like a you. You excited, you know, what does success mean to you, etc, etc. And there are a lot of the times you might not realize that you're afraid of success, you might not realize that you embrace success, you might not realize that I'm an extremely private person, extremely private person. And I like maintaining my privacy, but in my songs I have to be very honest and put everything on the table. So it's sort of this, this double-edged sword for me where I'm going, okay, well on one hand, I'm extremely private and real life on the other hand, I put it all on the record. And I've also, this is what I'm so excited about with the new album as I feel like as I'm writing and as I'm building it, I'm being more honest than I ever have been. And if you looked at my past records and what I was writing when I was 15, 16, yeah, I'm being honest, I'm saying whatever the hell I think. But there was a part in the middle where I wasn't being as honest as I wanted to be and I chose not to release some of those songs. But I think to answer over all question. Yeah, the idea of someone said to me, would you like an existence where you can't walk it, you can't go anywhere without being, you know, how and didn't harass. There are plenty of people on planet earth or plenty. There's a handful of people who experience that. And yeah, that doesn't, that doesn't look like fun. And I think your music can be very successful and I think if it is and you're lucky enough to have that and that's what you want and it gets to as many people as possible, which is certainly what I'd like it to do. I think I'd very much want to find a way to manage it so that the music is doing the talking and I'm able to live my life. And, you know, going out, I've gone out with some very famous friends and some of them will put their name on a restaurant reservation. And some of them won't. I understand that you wanted the table, but at the same time in doing that, you've now just got yourself a swam with paparazzi and sometimes it's deliberate sometimes it's not. And then Daniel Radcliffe, I loved what he did, he did something very smart where he just wore the same shit every day. And I love that because that's great, they're not getting, they're not getting a great picture, but sometimes, you know, there's ways to kind of work with media to a certain degree. And again, I just, I don't know that anybody wants to be hounded, I don't know that anybody wants that life, maybe they do. I'm not one of those people, I think for me it's really about the work, it's really about the music. And I would love to be able to get my music as far and wide as possible to be able to talk, to be able to connect to my fans. And at the same time, retain some privacy, retain my life and, you know, that's an ideal situation. I mean, I'd be lucky if my music got that far and wide, I'd love it. And then, you know, I think about, I mean, Alicia Keys, for example, who you never see splattered, although all over the tabloids. But then other artists, you know, do, you never really know why I don't know their lives, I don't know their circumstance. But I'd like to think that there are ways to, to agree, be able to manage that. Yeah, there is, I guess you're right, that there is always an element of control. With at least, like, how you might, how media might play an effect on your life, because if you are the attention-seeking musician performer, Instagram or whatever, I mean, there certainly is that group of people who are just trying to get attention by any means necessary. And they'll do it by doing shocking things or not really sticking to their ethics and morals. And I think if you can, even if you are recognizable on the street every day, it's probably going to be a lot better off than having, you know, for a swarm of paparazzi following you around, because you're going to do something crazy. Well, at that point, then, you know, if you're being followed and watched all the time, it's, I imagine, and again, I haven't been in that situation. So it's just conjecture, but I would say that we already analyse what we do enough. You know, social media, I like connecting with fans, and I like posting when I get to connect with fans, and I like having conversations. But I don't like stopping what I'm doing to take a picture and say, hey, guys, look what I'm doing is, and I remember it's funny because my friend Amber A, who introduced us. I remember when four square came out, and she was like, four square, it's this thing, and I think she was working with four square at the time, and she was like, you know, you can tell everyone where you are at all times. And I was like, that sounds like a fucking nightmare, like I'm taking a shit. Yeah. No one needs to know that. You know, or I'm, I think we get disconnected from the moment, and we know this, you know, at the point where we're self-aware enough with social media to know, okay, there are good sides where we can retain the control of putting our creativity out there. And you can make something dump it on the internet and see what happens, and that's fantastic. At the same time, yeah, we're still finding a balance. At what point in your day, you're not holding your phone. We're in LA right now, the map to go everywhere. You know, your phone is ringing, your email, you're off somewhere. There's in LA in particular, your phone barely leaves your hand if you're having a functioning working day. It's an extension, and you think about that, and you think, okay, in 10 years time, we're not going to want, this is the equivalent to a brick phone back in the day. You know, it's something that has become such a necessity. We're not going to want to hold it. And, I mean, look, I would rather hold it in my mind set now than think that someone's going to, you know, have it on a Google eyeglass, or put it on my face will be something that's permanent, so I don't have to use my hands. I'd like the option to disconnect, and so disconnecting is such a powerful thing. Because again, it plays into everything we've been talking about. If you're disconnecting, you sit silently for four hours, and I challenge anyone to do that. Sit silently, don't watch a movie, sit in a chair, lie down, you and your thoughts, and notice how noisy your head is. Notice what's going on in there, and it's so rare that we sit down, and we do that. And we realize what we're really thinking. So I think a lot of this kind of boils down to, we buy our own stories in our head, and we see ourselves in a certain way, but if we really distill it, and we really look at A, our actions every day, our time commitments, our attachments, the reason our subconscious, your reptilian brain, will protect you. So if you believe, if you were a kid and someone did something to you, it's stored in your subconscious, reptilian brain, and that essentially serves to protect you. So now you're an adult, and let's say when you're a kid, someone made fun of you for something. As an adult, you're like, I got over that, that's fine. But you go out and about, and you realize that you don't go in approach people and speak to them, for example. And it's because your brain won't allow you to put yourself in uncomfortable situations, and it's stored all these little things from when you're a child. So basically say, now we're protecting you, we don't want you to go and speak to people. So then you don't take risks, then you don't risk failing and learning and growing. Like when we talk about the social media and being distracted, do you have any rules for yourself, where you can allow yourself to cut off completely, like do you bring your phone into the studio, or do you shut off your phone, and also do you even have mindfulness practices where it says, it sounds like you maybe meditate a little bit as well. I wish I meditated more, which is probably the sentence most people who meditate will say, I mean, I don't, I shut my phone off, I do shut my phone off quite frequently. I turn it off, and I love it. It's one of my favorite, favorite times of the day. And I'm most creative when I turn the phone off. Even, even keeping the phone on and in a different room, you still know it's there. So turning it off and putting it in a back of a closet and spending doesn't exist, or leaving it at home, I love leaving it at home, it's one of my favorite things. Because when I go out and I can just be present, the past doesn't exist right now. The future doesn't exist right now. I'm not to go off on a complete tangent in that direction, but just to say, we're sitting at this table, chitchat, nothing else matters. What happened to me is a child doesn't matter. What's going to happen to me in the future doesn't matter. We're having a conversation. If I'm sitting there thinking about the future, thinking about the past, I'm unable to properly have a conversation with you. And if you take that to every other situation in life dating, you're sitting in front of someone, you're on a date. You've chosen your outfit and you're like, okay, you know, I want to look good. Do I sit like this? Do I sit like that? And you're like, am I leaning in too much? And they're talking, oh yeah, maybe if I look like this. How's my hair? Did you know as my makeup? There's so much shit going on in your head and they're telling you what they like. They're telling you what's going on in their day. They're having a conversation they're getting to know with you. And we miss so many points of connection because we're too busy thinking how am I coming off. You know, again, the subconscious believes, am I good enough? Am I worth it? Will this person like me? Will they love me? And we operate from need so much and from those subconscious triggers and behaviors. A lot of the time we miss just being in the moment. And I find that for myself, when I'm not in the moment, I can't create properly. I can't write honestly. Because I sit down with an instrument and I'm thinking just about ten other things that mean nothing. That's not going to lend itself. I want to write about just all the noise that's going on. I want to have a simple, focused emotion and I want to focus on it and feel it. And I think the main thing with social media is that multitasking aspect of it. If you really think, go through your phone, do Instagram, Facebook, all the different apps. Our brains and our eyes get tired. It drains you of your energy. It's like sticking ten different needles in your arm and letting it gradually drain you of all your blood. And then you wonder why you feel depleted at the end of the day, but you did nothing. So I started by realizing I'd track my behavior years ago. This was like four or five years ago. I was like, I'm waking up and spending an hour just easily being online. But let's say I scrap the hour and I do something else with it. And if I went through my day and I started eliminating all the social media, unless it was, I want to connect with my fans and post now. I'm going to post this video or I'm going to post this thing and give myself some time to connect and then move on. I found that I suddenly had four hours in the day that we're free. And talk about hyper focus when it comes to time and what you're really going after at that point. I was like, oh, okay, I have four extra hours in the day. What are I going to do with them? Well, remember all that shit you didn't have the time to do? Now you have the time to do it. And on top of that, you're more present when you do it. So again, this isn't really saying a lot of things that we don't know. I think we know them consciously, but I think really stopping and tracking our behavior is important. And I think acknowledging how much we rely on detaching and how much we're afraid to really just sit there and be with our thoughts. I think shows us a lot about ourselves in that moment. And I say this when I say ourselves, I mean each individual person. So we'll all have different habits. We'll have different ways of going about it. But it is very freeing. And I like it. So yeah, I do take my phone into the studio. A lot of the time I have too much business to handle right now. So I do a lot of different projects. I write for commercials and movies and different artists. And again, in terms of different projects behind the scenes, I like being involved with charities. I like being involved with people I like helping. So yeah, finding time is something I can find a bit challenging. And I've had to really work on time management. It's not something I grew up with. Yeah, I think that there is the ideal, which we strive for. Like the ideal to, oh, like I really want to wake up at 5.30 every day. And sometimes we can make that happen. But there are other times where life gets in the way. And we had a really late night or we went out drinking with friends. And then we have to sleep in. And we shouldn't push ourselves and get too guilty for checking our phone or checking email. A couple of times a day if our ideal would be to only schedule it for once or twice every day. I think there's no one right way of doing it. And I think what I've found is I've done the thing of waking up super early and being really strict on myself. But I know that my friends are going to call it 10pm and want to hang out. Yeah. And I know that if you really break it down and you go, what does my ideal day look like? And what do I want to do in life? Really simple. A lot of people say, believe in yourself and do then you sit there and you go. Okay, I'm going to believe in myself now. But deep down you don't believe in yourself. You're not saying so. Okay. Different steps. Right. Take steps to find inspiration. So things that. Excite that part of yourself that gradually show you ways to be done. That, you know, you can find yourself a mentor. You can, this is talking across the board. It's not strictly, musically. But my point is, I went through waking up early. I went through going to bed late. I went to trying all these different things and essentially what I found is waking up slowly for me works. I might wake up at 8am, but I allow myself an hour to do the things I want to do in the morning. I love getting worked done before noon because people wake up and then emails start coming in. But it's also up to me to turn my phone off and go, okay, this is how I want to operate. I know that I want the freedom to go out in the evenings. I know that I want to occasionally stay up late. I know I don't want to beat myself up for that. So it's not so much about setting these rules and sticking to them. It's about, for me, it's about committing to who you want to be. And by that, I mean, how do you show up in the world? Are you a compassionate person? Are you true to your word? Do you, um, do you make music? Do you not make music? Do you make films? What, what is it that you do based on who you are as a person and who you're being? So are you being responsible? Are you late all the time? You're in control of your actions a hundred percent of the time. So who are you really being? Are you being the business manager? Are you being a social media person? Or are you being the artist? And if you really look at yourself and you ask yourself the question, who am I being? Go, okay, what do I want my data look like? And who do I have to be to live that day to day? And often those behaviors break down to become how you behave on a day to day basis. So in terms of, okay, I want to be able to sleep a bit late, wake up a bit late. Does that fit my model of all the things that are important to me? All of the, all of the ways of being that I want to adopt in life that make me feel like I'm showing up the way I want to show up. That lead me towards what I feel as my purpose or what would make me matter. And at that point, you find that you're living in alignment with yourself. You're waking up. You're doing the things that matter to you. You're able to sleep better at night. And you give yourself enough wiggle room because at the same time, we fit doing, waking up. I must wake up at 5 a.m. and do this. Okay, but is that way of being really necessary for what you need to do? As a musician, do I need to wake up at 5 a.m. and it will depends if I create really well at 5 a.m. And it brings me loads of joy than do that. Yeah, because I think a lot of people, they might see like the top 10 business traits that all entrepreneurs have in common. Yeah. And then they just say, well, I better implement all 10 of these into my life if I want to be successful. And it sounds like what you're suggesting is first take a step back and ask, what kind of life do you want to live? Like what are the things that are important to you? What kind of art do you want to create? And what is it going to take to get there? And then, yeah, like, you know what makes you matter? Well, like underneath it all, what value do you feel you're bringing? And I think, again, to echo every, every podcast out there, you know, and bringing value to a situation is extremely important. I mean, musicians, I'm creating music. If you're making film, you start by creating something to put out there. You start by wanting to give value. You start by wanting to give something. So what makes you matter or what do you feel making? And that can be a hard question. People might sit there and be like, I don't know, nothing makes me matter. Or we might have this idea that it has to be something incredibly huge. A lot of the time, the simplest ideas we don't value within ourselves. Like it has to be this, yeah, there's the top 10 people who've got this stuff, but is it the top 10 people in the US? Is it the top 10 people worldwide? There are thousands of people. One thing I do know is, across the board, they're responsible for their actions 100% of the time. Yes, do they delegate? Sure, if you're a CEO, you're delegating. You're also, if you distill all of these things, what you'll notice across the board is whether they wake up at 5 a.m. 10 a.m. whatever they do, they are focused on the task at hand. They're hyper-focused with their time. They use their time wisely. And essentially across the board, the messaging behind what they're doing is consistent. We sometimes want things to come where we want them. Someone's quoting the pursuit of happiness today. And the guy who's drowning in the water and a boat comes past. And they're like, hi, can we help you? Can we save you? And he's like, no, I'm waiting for God. And then they're like, no, but seriously, let me save you. And he's like, no, no, no, no. I'm waiting for God. And he's like, oh, shit, okay. And then another boat comes past. And the same interaction happens. And then he dies and he goes to heaven. And he's like, what happened? You know, I was waiting for you. And God was like, I sent two boats. And so we have this idea of what things are supposed to look like. And how they're going to come about. And a lot of the time that limits us in terms of what we capable of doing. Transitioning from making rock music to releasing the stuff that I was making behind the scenes. There's a reason it took me a bit of time to release it. And that reason was I felt an obligation to the fans. And I didn't want to. I had been a fan of bands who had completely changed their sound. And I was like, damn, man, I really loved that. And I needed that record. It's stuff that really kept me going. And I wanted something. I wanted to be able to just rage. And then they completely changed. And so I didn't want to do that to our fans. I also wanted to keep the band so we can keep touring. And so what I did was I decided to put things out on the my names as solo artist. And that gave me more freedom to create the styles I was creating behind the scenes anyway. And I was 16, 17. I was making the rock record. But I was also producing a bunch of underground hip-hop in the UK. So my new record is combining a lot of my production styles. But I did go through questions. I went through certain things. And you know, lacking in inspiration at certain times. And I realized that I didn't want to make. I've never wanted to make the same record over and over again. So there was a journey for me to go. Okay, well, I had just while I was touring with that. Started working on a new sound. And I loved it. And I was super excited. But I also thought, I found some shit breaks if they hear it. Because they're going to, like, what the hell is this? So I really took my time with it. And I took the time to kind of perfect it and balance it. It's the idea of going solo. And now that I'm doing it, I'm really happy. And I'm really happy that people have embraced it. But that idea can also stop you from being creative. It can stop you from allowing yourself to explore. So you think it has to happen in this way. And this is what I have to do. But really, if you just stop a lot of the time, I'll be working on a song. And I'll be so determined that this song has to be this way. I'll scrap it. Take a piece of it. Use it elsewhere. You can easily open to something new and come up with a song that's 10 times better. Well, we think I need to do this. And the income is going to come from here and blah blah blah. But then before you know it, someone's bringing you income in this direction. And you're going, no, that's not the way I wanted it. I wanted it to be here. And you're like, you could be getting it for something completely different. But you don't always see it. So I think the attachment to how things should be is something that can really hold us back in life. And I think allowing ourselves to explore, allowing ourselves to be inspired, allowing ourselves to commit to something even though we don't know the outcome is very important to exploring new paths. And keeping things fresh, keeping things new, but also really bringing the best out of you ultimately. I know that that's a really cliche and simple thing to say. But when you're working on something and you're putting so much time into creating an album, sometimes it takes years. You, you put it out and then when you finish the album, is it difficult to let go of expectations to let go of like, oh, I really want this to do well. I really want people to like it because in the music world specifically, it comes with a lot of criticism. I guess it comes with with most mediums. You put a documentary out or a movie out and there's a lot of reviews and critics and people that want to shit on it or talk good about it. Is, is that something that's challenging for you to do? Um, I think in a way that I don't always consciously recognize. So I noticed there was a review and I clicked to open it and I was like, why am I nervous to read this? And then because, because I had a, I saw it there before I went to click on it, I was like cool, it's there, it's not there. It kind of doesn't really matter to me in a lot of ways. I think, I think less so, less so than when I was younger, I think I'm not so attached to, and look, I could say this now, who knows, I could get a really shitty review and it could really not me, but in a way, everything in life is medicine, you know, the good, the bad, how many of us out there are saying, I'm really glad I went through that struggle because it made me stronger and it made me who I am. Excuse me, but then a struggle will come along tomorrow. And like, oh, I don't want the struggle, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, but my mom, to quote my mom, is like, life isn't as our school. And it's true, and if you can appreciate the learning, and know that in the end of the day, you're going to be okay. How many times did we think the world was going to come crashing down and yet it was okay? Our problems, for the most part, when we talk about our sort of creative struggles and everything, when I've, when I've struggled with anything, be it business creative, five sat down and thought in a solution based way, I've always found a solution. The solutions will come, it might not come that day, it might not come the next day, but it'll come eventually. I mean, look, we can, we all criticize. You know, we sit there and we criticize at home. I might hear a song, and if I notice the first things out in my mouth, I'll be like, oh, they wasted that chorus. So, oh, that's a shit lyric, or I can't listen to that song because it annoys me. But I think if I was putting that in print, putting it on the internet, and the artist had to read that. You know, there's, in a way, it's just an emotion, but I might be in a club, and that song comes on. I also think there's different ways of listening to things. We think sometimes that, like, this is a song, and it must be appreciated in all mediums at the same time in the same way. I don't necessarily want to listen to drummer bass, you know, when I'm in the bathtub, but I could be in a nightclub, and drummer bass comes on, and I'm like, yeah, this is awesome. I've found myself hating on songs on the radio, and then I'm in a club, and suddenly I'm moving, go. What? I mean, club is a big word, but this, I used to promote nightclub a lot. When I was growing up, when I was in high school, and that was a big part of just being out, being exposed to so much music and dancing and feeling and absorbing it. But essentially, we all, we're all critics in one way or another. And I think, you know, again, the cliche, our biggest critics are ourselves, like, you're probably not going to criticize me, as hardly as I'm a criticise myself, but you might come at angles I didn't expect, and you might say things that I wasn't paying attention to, but at the same time, I like to kind of leave it where it is. I mean, you're like, I don't want to brush them off completely, and I don't want to pay so much attention to them. For me, it's somewhere in the middle, don't believe anyone who calls you a God, and don't believe anyone that says you're a partnership. In the end of the day, make what you make, people are going to judge you. The person next to you might be thinking things that are way harsh than what the critics actually printing, but they might not say it. So, there's, again, attachment. You're going to be attached to what the critic says and let it get in your way and play into your subconscious belief of, I'm not good enough. Or are you going to follow the other path of things, which is you're going to judge me anyway, but this makes me happy. And most of the time, if you look at people who are successful who have that story, that's the only thing that got them through. Like, Kanye West is a very good example of someone who is, whatever you say about him, positive negative, doesn't matter. The point is, he is plowing ahead. He is just moving forward. He's believing in himself. He's attaching in a lot of ways, and I don't know him personally. I don't know whether he's how attached he is or detached, but he's giving the impression of expressing himself so wholly and freely. And I'm sure there's subconscious levels there that are leading him to do that. But at the same time, negative things can be said. That's not stopping him from creating. It's not holding him back. He might respond in music. You might respond in certain ways. But there are a lot of us that might be like, oh, that's a bad review, and I'm going to feel really bad about it and stop making. I've seen creative stop. But I think the biggest sin is to stop based on somebody. You're not living for someone else. You live for someone else. You're diluting who you are. People will vibe on who you are. And that's proof. Every single day is obvious because people are doing a weird shit on planet earth and people are loving it. They're loving it. So go do you. Be weird. Do some weird shit. Who cares? We're all going to be rubble and dust in the end of the day. And I always think to myself, if I'm lying in my grave right now, having a conversation with myself, make it's over. It's done. Is what I'm going through today in issue? Should I let it stop me? And generally, there's dead lady who's, I'd like to think 110, but she's not. I was like really in shape. You know what I mean? Like she was fucking till she was 90. But now I'm pretty much like 84 and I'm lying there. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm like life's over and I'm like, wow, if I'm my age looking back, I really don't give a shit. And I was saying, I tried to live by in my twenties, which was, if only youth knew and if only age could. And so my thing was, okay, let's just fight, you know, you have like, my parents were in their 50s, and they just think of a fuck about anything. And it was brilliant. And then just like, yeah, whatever who cares, and you get to that age, where you don't care, there's always a command and granddad who's like, in the corner being like, it's like a dick. I know. Well, it's definitely the old guys in the locker room that just their naked, and they don't give a shit, but then the young guys are all like nervous and scary. Exactly. Wouldn't it be awesome to just be young and not scared, and then weigh as teenagers with that? We're like, this is the world. It's all going to be really cool. And then you leave school, and everyone takes a shit on you, and you're like, this is not what I thought it would be. And I'm really lucky to have not had to go through the system. I've always had different jobs. But in the end of the day, life, you go through a breakup, and you take those scars, and then you go through another breakup, and you take those scars. And then, there's so many things that you do. I feel very, very lucky and blessed in a musical sense, because I've been very lucky and how my music's been received, and it's been nice, but also I haven't released a lot of other stuff, because I didn't feel right in it anyway. I could have released stuff, and people would hate it. And that's going to happen. That is absolutely going to happen. And I hope at that point, I look at it and I go, okay, I'm a try and take things that I can relate to and what they're saying. It's all about how you relate. Can I relate to what they're saying? Can I agree with what they're saying? Is that something I want to improve on? Or is this just the path I want to go down? The next track that comes out on the road, we've just been playing it for two months. It was the first tour I did as a solo artist. It was amazing, and I'm stoked, so thank you to everybody who came out. And there's one song in particular, people kept posting. I was really surprised, I didn't expect that to be the song. And that song's coming out on September the 28th. It's called Make Me Feel. And the song, the song you think that that one was, was a good one. actually what's really funny is I sat out to write a shit song. I hadn't written a song that year. I had just been doing other projects. And this is a little while ago. And right when I was going into recording this, solo project, I was like, I want to write a new song, but I'm tired of putting myself under all this pressure. Because I had, I just been, just different things were going on at that time. And I was giving myself a lot of pressure at that moment. So they're okay. I'm a right of shit song. There's going to be a deliberate shit song to clean the pipes, get it out. And I started writing it. And I was like, okay, here we go, crap song, awesome in this sucks. And I was just saying whatever the hell I felt, whatever the hell I thought. And then it kind of stuck. And then the next thing, I was walking to the grocery store, and I was singing it. And I was like, no man, this is shit song. I like it now. And so I kind of did it, just to get it out, just to clean the pipes, okay, we've now written something who cares no pressure. And it's amazing what happens when you give yourself no pressure. It's almost that if you, if you give someone else the credit, for all of your successes, and all of your failures, it's amazing what you'll do. If I might go for anything I do, or don't do, you get the credit. I will start creating, like nobody's business, I'll explore, I'll do the way to shit. Why? Because all my childhood shit, or all my am I not good enough, all the reasons, we're all out there, just trying to be loved, or wanting to be loved in the end of the day. That's why the whole loving yourself is so important. We don't always put those two things together. But loving yourself is important because it's the only place where you can guarantee, where you operate from. And if you don't operate from a place if I need this, and I need this, and I need this, you're just doing things because you want to, and because they feel right, and you're operating from a much clearer perspective. So essentially, and it's a similar thing of going, I'm deliberately going to write a crap song, and then I did it, and someone liked it, and they were like, let's work on this song, and so we did some additional production on the song, with some friends of mine, and they brought it to life in a great way, and I was like, oh, that's really cool. So I played it to a couple of people on my team. One person was like, this is my favorite song, I love it. Two other people were like, ah, it's a bit of a b-side. So I was like, okay, well jury's out, who cares, we can keep going. So we keep going, and it's interesting, some people will look, you didn't go, okay, it's all right. But then somehow I'm finding more and more and more people, saying, I love this song, it's great. It's my PR company's favorite song, you know, it's just a difference, our collection's agency's favorite song, and I'm sitting there going, hang on a sec, that was really random, and I didn't expect it. But again, if I sat down and I'm going to write the best song of all time, and I put all that pressure on myself, I don't know what the hell I would have written, but the irony that coming out with the song that was, you know, just supposed to be crap, and people in our picking up on it, and putting it out there as a perfect testament to the idea that again, you can write something in five minutes, it can be the best thing you've ever done. And a lot of musicians will say, not that that took five minutes, but it was sort of segueing into the idea of people, saying, I sat down and I wrote my best song in five minutes, and this other song took me three years. Now, our biggest song is a band, took me three years to write. It was a seven-minute song, and I kept cutting it down, it's called Road to Paradise, and I started with this riff, and I refused to let the riff go, and I kept building on it, building on it, so it's something to be said for the craft. Right, and not getting too strict with rules, but it only takes five minutes to write a really hit song, maybe I'll just spend five minutes on every song. It's like, life doesn't work like that. Exactly, and it's the same with everything. I think if you can really distill it down to, for me it's, am I being responsible for my actions? I'm showing up on time. Am I being committed to what's really important to me? I'm a being compassionate in the ways that are true to me as well. There are certain things where if you really distill it down to ways of being, it's no longer about your rule book of, did I do this at 2 p.m. and that at 2 p.m. because that just messes with your head, and doing things is like thinking things. It's not completely connected to your core and what you feel. So I try to not operate from that place when I'm writing, and I think again, saying, I'm not, we can get really into when you're writing a song, you think I must write a song. I could sit here and have a conversation with you and tell you all sorts of shit, and then I get into the music, and it's suddenly like, this is really poetic, and you get into songwriting mode, which is a lot of times a less honest place because you're thinking about the rhyming, and you're thinking is the problem. So a lot of the time I like to just freestyle over shit and just express myself, say what's on my mind, and then the editing process can take a long time, but essentially the first seed of something, that may come in five minutes. I have a song called Stay Up. I wrote that song in ten minutes. The whole song lyrics music everything, and I would love to sit down and write another song like that in ten minutes. And it's going to happen at some point in my life when I'm really connected and I need to just dump something, but I want to keep creating. So I've got so long as again, I'm following the ways of being that are important to me. It doesn't matter when I do something or how I do something. If I decide to write my day on paper and say, which I do often, just because again, there's so much going on. From this time for this time, I'm going to do this. From this time for this time, I'm going to do this. It eliminates a lot of time wasting. When your day is a scheduled advance, you don't emotionally question what you're up to. You go, I said I would do this. I'm going to do this. You can change what that looks like every single day. So long as when you do it, you commit to it. So long as you're responsible for what you've put on paper, so long as you follow through, I'm at least those are important things to me. Yeah, because you're kind of scheduling the spontaneity. So you can schedule that four hour block when you sit down and write, but it doesn't mean that the writing itself is very structured and rigid. Because a lot of times with it needs to be free flowing. You need to be able to, like you said, freestyle and try to figure out things in the moment. And sometimes what I'll do is I know that I have a lot of business and different projects going on. And I go, and here's your one hour to sit down and do some lyrics. And when I'm in it, I've got so much adrenaline because I've been on 50,000 different funcals. That I'm like, nah, I've worked. I've worked out that that doesn't always work for me. That what's actually a little bit more beneficial as if I have three days of maybe business. And then I just block out three days for creativity. And no one can reach me and my phone is off. And maybe it's one day, maybe it's two days. But I go do that and it allows me to just fully get in the zone and not have to stop when I'm feeling creative. So those are ways that work for me and everybody has their thing. You know, sometimes knowing that I only have two hours to create, actually enables me to do a lot because I'm not sitting there thinking I have all day and getting distracted and fathom around. So I do things differently every day. And I've found things that work better. But again, if I go out at night time, the next day I might wake up a little bit later I have to create a bit of room for that. If I, you know, I might have my days and go, this is what I do at this time. Cool, but someone might be like, let's be in the studio all day on Thursday. Where does that leave your Thursday? Where does that leave your routine? So again, if I'm at the basis following my ways of being that are important and dictate how I show up every day and up finding room for all of those things so long as I approach them with that way of being. So it's less about what you do and how you be essentially. If you could give advice to somebody who's just getting started out like the young creators, those that are facing a lot of doubts about putting their stuff out there. Whether they're a musician or a filmmaker or an artist, what would you tell them? Just do it. That's your simplest answer, I love it. Yeah, if someone's been lucky. Yeah, I mean, we can sit there and talk all day about like, well, I want to do it, but I don't feel like, you know, I'm good enough. Okay, well, then get better. I mean, I don't feel good. Okay, well, a lot of people start out things not good enough. You know, I'm not a good enough piano player or guitar player. I'm not a guitar player or guitar player. So practice. I'm not a worthwhile human being. Okay, but let's look back into that and let's see. I mean, you know, if you've, did you do something at school where you felt worthwhile if you're a kid? Did someone like you? Do your parents like you? Did you? You can always find something that you've done at some point that is worthy that you haven't acknowledged as worthy because again, you're waiting for, you're waiting for it to come the way you want it to come. You know, it's like you're waiting for God to save you. Yeah, God sent you two boats. If you believe in God, but essentially, I would say just do it. And if you're stuck on something, take a break, sure, but come back to it and work on it. And don't, again, you're going to be judged anyway. And if you don't do it now in 10 years time, you're going to look back. I'm still be like, I want to do it. And a lot of the time, you know, we talk about midlife crises. I feel like a lot of the midlife crises come in. People following this rigid way of living. And we, I mean, there's, there's also coming to terms with a different shift in mortality and life. And I haven't been there. So I don't want to speak broadly on the subject. And be too, too generalizing, but I will say that two patterns that seem to play into it are number one in mortality and coming to realisation, which, again, I think we're all going to get to. But also, the idea that you went to school, you did what you needed to do. You got yourself a job. You did what you needed to do. You're a good husband or wife. You did what you needed to do. You got anxious because you were, whatever, reaching 30, didn't do what you needed to do. But then you managed to put it together and that's fine. And then you hit 40. And then you sort of get to a point where like, I did everything I was supposed to do, but I did nothing I wanted to do. And now I'm realising that I want to live, because life doesn't last forever, in this particular round plane. And this particular part of the journey is going to come to an end, and yet what the hell did I do? So that point is like, well, shit, now I have the money, or maybe I don't have the money, but I have the desire, and I'm more settled, now I want to play, now I want to do stuff. And I just feel like the more work you can do on yourself, sooner and the more you can confront your subconscious, the more you can confront your weaknesses, if you want to call them that. But I wouldn't call them weaknesses. I would just say the things that might hold you back from doing what you want to do, or being operating from your choice yourself. The more you can do that and the earlier you can do that, the more chance you stand in life to kind of just live from a true place and regretless. And you can talk all day about a particular lyric, or not a particular lyric, or you know, why don't? There's always reasons to stop you, just do it. Again, look at mumble wrap. That's out there at a moment. Look at dudes, a fave-tap, face-tap, and rainbow-coloured hair. Some of the lyrics throughout, and I'm talking that's one medium. There is room for everything and everyone. Just do what you want to do. You never know. And a five years time, you might look back and realize someone else did it and kick yourself, because you're like, you know what? It would have been safe for me to do that. It's all safe. You can listen to a hundred podcasts that say do it. You can listen to a hundred people say believe in yourself. You can listen to a million and one different things, get off the podcast, and then still be like, I still don't know how to do it. So I would say just think about three things. Look at your time. Is it really focused on what you're trying to do? Or is it like you do a bit of it every day? Are you truly, truly putting your time and energy where you wanted to go? Number two, attachments. Are you attached to who you should be? Or is it really what you want to do? Are you attached to? I'm not good enough, and is that getting in the way? And look at that. Look at your story is good and bad. And number three, commitment. You will get motivated if you start with commitment. So start by being committed to your time. Letting go of attachments. Be committed to it. Wake up in the morning. For two weeks, you might not know how to do something. Just say to yourself, I'm going to do it for an hour a day for two weeks or two hours a day. The end of those two weeks, you're going to look back and go, oh my god, I've done so much in two weeks. How cool I didn't know this was possible. Great. I'm going to keep doing it. And you get motivation. And be committed to inspiration. Be committed to growing. And increasing your skill set and just see where that gets you. Don't be so married to an outcome. Be married to how you can grow within yourself and let the outcomes happen. So, I forget what the question was. Dude, Tatiana, thank you so much for doing this podcast. I am your newest fan. I absolutely love your music. It's so good. Thank you. If people want to hear from you, hear your music, where should we send them? Spotify, Apple Music, iTunes, YouTube. I mean, it's everywhere. But I'd say go check out on Spotify. The name is Tatiana Demaria. There's a few songs out now. As I said, there's another one coming out on September 28th. Go make your feel. I'm excited. Check it out. See what you think for yourself. And then, yeah, there's a new album coming out in the new year. And a lot of new music. Actually, also, I'm playing a show in LA. I'm headlining the whiskey, a go-go on October the 13th. Tatiana, thank you so much for doing the podcast. Thanks for having me, man. Thanks for listening to The Ground Up Show. If you like this episode, you can help support this show and make sure that we can keep it advertisement free. Head over to patreon.com slash Matt Diavella for just $1 per episode. That's $4 a month. Not that much money. You can help keep this show going. Thank you guys for listening. And I'll see you next week.
