# Ground Up 051 - Staying True w/ Christian Crosby
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YoP_37mCPVw
Full Episode: http://mattdavella.com/051
Behind-the-scenes: http://instagram.com/mattdavella

Christian Crosby is an entertainer & entrepreneur. When he’s not hosting the 76ers basketball games he’s dedicating himself to his company Live Life Nice: a media company challenging people to stop being assholes (my words not theirs) and to be a nice person.

Find Christian here: http://instagram.com/christiancrosby
Live Life Nice: http://livelifenice.com

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** ground up, the ground up show, christian crosby, philadelphia, philly, basketball, half-time, entertainer, entrepreneur, podcast, film, filmmaking, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, staying true, truth, find your truth, conversation, discussion, interesting, 
**Date:** 2018-03-21

## Transcript
 People are so scared to start down here and so they don't start at all and it's a very common thing. It's like people psyched themselves out of even trying because they don't want to look less than or they don't want to be judged or they don't want to publicly fail. Publicly fail. Just fail. You know what? You're one step ahead of someone who hasn't done anything. Fail twice. You're two steps ahead of someone who hasn't done anything. Because failure teaches you so many lessons and leads you to the next step of success. Christian Krauseby is an entertainer and entrepreneur when he's not hosting the 76ers basketball games. He's dedicating himself to his company, live life nice. It's a media company challenging people to not be assholes. Okay, that's not his words. I'm not putting those words in his mouth. Those are mine. But really he's trying to challenge people to be nice. And that's something that I personally stand by. And it was great to chat about his story on today's podcast. We talk about dealing with doubt. Taking tiny steps. That appear to be tiny in hindsight, but that are actually huge leaps. Like hosting small school assemblies to hosting the NBA All-Star games. We talk about taking your work seriously. Really taking the craft seriously. But not life. Enjoying life. Being happy and energetic and positive. But also at the same time, having that balance. It's a great conversation. Really high energy. I think you guys are going to like it. Before we get into it, there's a couple of ways that you can support this podcast. As you know, there's no advertisements on this podcast, which is amazing. You can get to hear my voice for a couple of minutes before we get into these conversations. So you're welcome for that. But if you want to help support this thing, if you want to help keep this thing going, there's a couple of things you can do to help. You can leave a rating or review on iTunes. They help and I do notice them. Five stars only, people. Some of these people sent in the four stars. The three stars. Now, it's cool. Honestly, just do whatever you want. I don't really care. I just care that you are listening and that you're making an effort to contribute. That's me. Means the most. There's other ways that you can help. You can share your favorite episode with a friend. It's probably going to be this one because this one is killer. But if not, I'm sure there's another episode that you really liked. Whether it was with Rich Roll or the minimalist. If you got a lot of value from it, I'm sure that you have a friend that might also get value from it. I grew my freelance business through word of math, through clients. Talking me up to other clients, other prospective clients. Hopefully, that's how I think this podcast will grow as well. Let's see, what else can you do? Oh, you can send in your questions. If you have a question for me or for my guests, record a video or audio. Please keep them under two minutes and send it to hello at MattDevelop.com. That's hello at MattDevelop.com. Then we'll get your voice on the show. And then we'll be able to help answer your question as well as help other people who are going through the same thing. And that's it. That's it for the intro. Let's talk with Christian Crosby. This is podcast episode number 51. Let's get into it. You're listening to The Ground Up Show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is MattDevelop and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary Minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. All right. Yeah, the YouTube thing. Dude, well, like, hi. Yo, I just, uh, mine has been a slow build. I mean, literally in the past two weeks, it's been crazy. That's when things have really grown. So I went from 4,000 subscribers to like 14,000 and two weeks. Was fucking weird. I'm just, I know you're like, I'm like, uh, yeah. I mean, that's the thing is that I've a problem with that. And you know, as like when you start to grow, you have those big bumps, then you kind of become a little bit too obsessed with some metrics. And then so today was a day where I'm like, I'm not checking anything. I'm just going to go to the gym. I'm going to relax. I'm going to like read a little bit. I have to like replace that with something else. So I've, uh, you know, that's just one of those things that it's exciting. And at the same time, you realize like that shouldn't influence what you create. It easily does. Yeah. I think there's a balance of that probably because if you notice that something strikes a chord, like so I created a video, it was called my minimalist apartment. And it was just like the tour of my apartment. So that one blew up and it's got like over 130,000 views. I see a lot of people commenting on all your stuff about that video still. Yeah. Yeah. That one is, it's just still growing. It's just been steady since I put it up. Yeah. It's not like it was just like, you know, on the front page of some magazine. And then all of a sudden, it took off and went crazy. So for me, I was like, all right, that gets really cool to see that. But then also, and I think that you kind of take note, you're like, okay, that resonated with people. Right. But you shouldn't just, now I'm not going to put out 100 different. My minimalist department videos. Right. And that's what people see. The sad part about the success of content on the internet is like, when you receive that success, you're like, Oh my god, oh my god, how do I, how do I do this again? How do I repeat myself? And then sometimes people end up like you said sacrifice and the creativity that they've always had for a sake of metrics. And there's a thin line, right? Because is that a bad thing? But then on the other side, it's like, was that the purpose was at the goal just to get the numbers? Or is the goal something greater? Like, is it to be creative and to express yourself? So I think, I don't know, it's tough. That's what I mean, right? Because it's like, what is the goal? Like, is the goal? Like, I just want to do videos to get numbers and metrics and how people like them and make money? Or is it that I want to express myself and do that? Because if that's the case, you might not get the metrics all the time. So it's like, where do you balance that out? Yeah. I just had Sarah Ditchie on the podcast, who's got like a pretty big, YouTube following. She's got like over 300,000 subscribers. But her thing was, it's too full. It's looking at both of them. So it's like, first I'm thinking about, All right, what's going to connect and resonate with my audience? Like, they're clearly coming to me for a reason. They're coming for tech advice. They're coming because they want to learn about filmmaking. And then there was the second one is, what do I want to create? What do I want to put out there? And every video you make doesn't have to be, you know, a huge hit or a huge success. Every piece of content doesn't have to be amazing. Yeah. But I think that balancing those two is important. Actually, this kind of reminds me of just, myself starting a business in general. Because when I started a business, it's like, there's a lot of filmmakers and photographers and people that are more talented than me that weren't able to make things stick, that weren't able to make money doing it. Right. So it's like, this skill is important, but it's also really important to make money. And keep this thing going. Because, you know, that's the whole, that's the whole point. If you can do what you love for a living, then I feel like that's a win. I think you know what that, it just comes down to balance. It's like, with anything, it's got to be balance. And like you're saying, even with creative, I think as artists sometimes you feel like you're selling out. And that's not necessarily the case. You have to have that other side, that business side, that strategy side, that longevity side, that keeps your creative alive. Because if your creative doesn't have legs or arms, how is it going to move? Absolutely. Well, man, thank you for coming on the podcast. It feels good to have Philly in the building. Yeah. So happy to be here, dude. I saw your content. I saw the ash or waltz when you did. And that's how I found you. And then I just started following you. And then I just started watching your stuff. And big fan. So thanks, man. Really cool to be here, man. It's an honor. I really appreciate that. I appreciate being out here. Philly is like pretty near and dear to me, just because of the time that I spent there. I mean, it was two years that I was there two to three years. But like a lot happened over that, that time. That was, I wasn't going to temple. I went to temple actually for two and a half years. And then I tried to make it as you. Yeah, to you. To you. To you for temple. I was talking about this with somebody recently. Like the worst. What is that called a chant? Like to you for temple you for university. Like it just doesn't have the right flow. Yeah. But man. I got into like basketball there. And it was just a super exciting to be. That was my first time living in a city. It was where I started my business. All my connections. All my original clients are from there. So it's cool to have you on the podcast. Have you from Philly? Is that where you grew up? My whole life has been in Philly. I was born in New Jersey. So I definitely claimed Jersey. It was not like, too. Yeah. Like I don't neglect Jersey. I don't try to say I'm from Philly when I'm not. Yeah. But I have grown up in Philly. From every place that I've worked from the place I went to school. My whole childhood. I'm a Philly boy. So I just like to say Jersey Philly. But I was born in four years. No Jersey. You self Jersey boy. That's so weird because actually. This is going to sound weird. I went to four years high school. But it actually doesn't have a relation to four years the town. I actually went to Lebanon township. I was going to say Eastern is the high school. Yeah. Yeah. But anytime I'm like four years shit. Yeah. But I think it's weird because North and South Jersey are like different states. Different states. Like I literally be people all the time, especially being in Philly who are from South Jersey. And I have no idea where you're from. Like I've never been. Never heard of it. I'm from like Clinton Flemington New Jersey area, which is like a little bit closer in New York. Yeah. But it's interesting. Because that too is like obviously South Philly. I mean, we're sorry. South Jersey. Lot of Philly's fans there. Right. It's all Philly. Basically, South Jersey is an extension of Philadelphia to be completely honest. Most people are sixers fans, Eagles fans, Philly's fans, Flyers fans. Yeah. It's interesting. Yeah. We'll get back into that. We'll get back into like your ground up story and how you got things started. But you're off of like a high as you were saying last night. One of the craziest experiences. I'm sure of your entire life. Oh my goodness. It was unbelievable last night. I hosted State Farm all star Saturday night, which is the NBA all star Saturday festivities. The skills challenge, the three-point contest and the slam dunk contest. That's the fun show. For someone like me who grew up watching that every year, obsessing over the slam dunks, to stand on that court and be the voice of that moment. This year was like, I wanted to cry. Like, it was unbelievable. I'm on this high right now and trust me when I say like all of these motivational speakers that are like, you can do it if you, they are not lying. You can literally do anything. If I did that, you can do anything. Like that's what I'm on right now. And I am living proof. I am just a black guy from New Jersey. Nothing different about me than anyone else. And somehow some way I hosted NBA all star weekend. Unbelievable. It's great to get the call. They hit me up about two months ago. And they were like, hey man, we've built the relationship with them over the last five six years. And they were like, you've paid your dues. We've recognized what you've been doing in Philadelphia. And we think it's your time to shine. We want to bring you up to Saturday night. And I was just like, oh my god. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It was unreal. It's cool. I started out with the NBA stuff on all star weekend. I started out as a stage manager. So very, the, you know, the most bottom of the total role you could have during the NBA all star year or PA or stage manager. And it's fun. You get a great experience. You get to meet players. You get to do a lot of hard work. And it's great. I did that for the first two years. No, first three years actually. And then from now I evolved into hosting for NBA all star weekend. But it was just Friday nights, which is the celebrity all star game. Some of the glee events. And it was really cool to just be able to evolve to the next level of the weekend. Yeah, doing the, the behind the scene stuff. Did you ever feel like, because that's where I started out was just like film making in this podcast with the chance for me to actually start having a voice and and speaking up. Did you feel like you, you weren't really yourself then or was it just kind of a progression of your career that came natural? It's definitely a natural progression. One thing I pride myself on is staying true to who I am. There's only been one point in period of time in my life where I was neglecting who I truly was and that those were my college years. I kind of went astray. Just I think it's a natural thing we do as young adults. When we're finally out of our, when we finally get the chance to just do whatever we want. We want to figure out who we are. We just want to double check sometimes. I think and during that period of time some people get lost and don't figure it out and become someone else that maybe they don't even like. Others have it figured out from the beginning and then others like me test some things out and then go, not nope and come back to who they truly are. So I think with my career. But at time I started my like real career journey. I had it figured out who I was as a person. Which really helped I think which really helped me progress in my career. Because when you know who you are it helps you kind of. Focus on what's most important. And like kind of like it allows you to not get distracted as much and get off track. So right. I think that's probably the hardest thing especially in those years of college is like. You and my younger sister is going through this now where she's like just about to head off to college but she's like what should I do with my life. And I laughed because she like kind of made it like a joke where she's like I have no idea what I want to do with my life. And I'm like wow that's like a really challenging place to be because. At that age it just seems like holy shit like it's coming a lot faster than I realize it. Like real life is going to catch up to me quick and I need to start making money. I need to start making sure I don't get caught up and trapped in debt. But to be able to know who you are is a solid foundation to be able to move forward and say all right. At least I know who I am. At least I know what I like and what I enjoy and then all these other things I can kind of push to the side. Everything comes second to purpose. To me like if it's not purpose driven then it doesn't make sense to do it. And it makes every decision you make in life so much easier. And that is the most important thing. So when I talk to kids I'm like listen just. You should it it's okay not to know what you want to do at your life that is absolutely fine. It's not okay to not know who you are as a person that's not okay. And if you focus on that and versus trying to focus on like a career path or oh my god like how am I going to make like don't worry about any of that stuff like. When you discover who you are it all falls into place because you you quickly will understand what you should be doing. Versus what you shouldn't and naturally a snowball effect will happen and you will evolve into whatever it is you're supposed to be. It's and it kind of is really that simple I this is not my plan like me hosting last night was not my plan me starting live life nice was not my plan. This is all happening as a result of me discovering who I am knowing who I am and accepting that and just moving forward like and it this is just what it's evolved into. And it's kind of wow it's kind of weird to say that out loud. Yeah damn that's crazy. It's the craziest thing is just kind of looking back at your journey and seeing the transition points and seeing how one thing truly does lead to the next and every experience that you've had. Whether it be in college or like your first job and your first career path. Those things pave the way for that next step so it's like you know last night think about all the work that went in before that and all those other jobs that maybe even didn't feel like they were leading in the right direction but they gave you some kind of tactical skill that you could then build upon. When did it so what was that that first job at a college when did you start you know working with the success it's so funny so. I started working with the six was right before college. I was trying to get into acting and so I was doing this Philadelphia tourism commercial and we were put jamas and we were basically dancing and flipping and because of my martial arts background I did martial arts for like 10 years since I was a kid my dad actually owned a karate school. I mean my brother went there and I was kind of martial arts. Taekwondo okay cool and then it was a mixed martial arts school so a little bit of jikwondo and a little bit of wushu and a little bit of jiu jitsu but not really. Yeah I feel like these days it's like hard to find just a pure like the the pure form of whatever that original martial art was. Yeah and the very beginning it was called a it was called Kim's karate and I don't even know if there's any more Kim's but it was that was a true traditional Korean Taekwondo martial arts school. And we were there and we had this guy his name was Master Hassan and he was the real deal didn't speak a look at English like straight up like if you were not if you were not going to come to his class and do what he said you were not taking his class. He wasn't like trying to flip it or be nice or like marketing none of that it was like you're here to do martial arts you're either going to do it. If he kicks you he kicks you if it's just what it it's more old school. Yeah yeah when when when when people could kick you. Kick it kicked anymore. These kids these days were too soft. Right yeah it's different where we live and now but yeah it was like that it was like that. But then the karate school evolved into something my dad took it over and they called it character quest USA. It's a weird name but we taught principles life principles and different character traits that you should take on as a person. And that was part of the curriculum that you had to learn at the Christ school but anyway. But that's kind of like a basis to a lot of karate is that like because I did it growing up. What? Yeah I did it Shinru karate. No. Yeah like for about five six years and I got my black belt just I think early college and then I respect. Then I slow down and just stop. It's hard to do karate as an adult. It's hard to do anything. It's hard to do anything. It's hard to do anything. It's making the time and stuff. But you know you learn like discipline right and like character building like that's all a part of it. That's like it's the kind of the incognito lessons of martial arts which is pretty cool. Yep. So I was at this commercial I was doing these flips and these two girls were part of six years dance team and they saw me doing these flips. They come up to me and they're like oh my god those are really cool unique flips. I've never seen it before. What is that called? I'm like oh these are like martial arts tricks because tricking is a martial arts. Like subculture where you mix flips and gymnastics with kicks. So I was doing tricking in the commercial and they were like you'd be so good for this dunk team. And I'm like okay yeah like wow. So I'm like where is it? What is it? They're like show up to auditions. I showed up to the auditions. Name dropped the two dancers and I made the team and that's the litter that happened about eleven years ago. I made the dunk team showed up to my first game to do the trampoline dunks and my eyes were opened. I was like oh my god. I didn't realize that NBA had so many jobs. I didn't know they had PR and legal and community relations and market. I just thought it was a coach a team. People showed up and watched basketball. I was just so naive. And I fell in love with it immediately and I knew that I was like I just want to be a part of this and I know that something about this place is going to be part of my growth. I just knew it from the beginning. I don't know why. And from there the rest is history. I just you know offered my time whenever I could. I came in for free. Like I never it was never about money for me. I was a guy that was like do you need anything? Do you want anything? How can I help? I would come into the office. I started saying hi to everyone. People just knew me. I was just a dunker. And then that's kind of how it evolved into me being like the right. So we used to have a mask. His name was hip hop. And I became like the right-hand man. What was hip hop? Like what was your rap? How do you? He's a rap. The hip hop rap. And then Alina Everton. That was the Alina Everton era. So the hip hop era. It was just kind of people identified that mask up with Alina Everton and the era that Alina Everton brought to the NBA. What an amazing time to be doing that dude. That's a dream, right? It was pretty small window where you could actually be a part of that. Yeah, it was pretty cool. So from there I worked my way up, not long after I got a full-time position with the Sixers as the coordinator and entertainment department. And from there evolved into hosting with the Sixers and doing digital content, which led me into kind of what I'm doing now. So thinking back, it's just been an interesting journey. My advice to anyone listening, who's like, how do I do it? Like it's really not about working for the NBA or working for Starbucks. It's more so about whatever you have interest in or whatever you really love doing. It's just a matter of starting now. There's never going to be a perfect time to do it. There's never going to be a sign that, like it just do it. Just go. Like it's just like working out. It's hard as part of starting and then once you get in the flow, you feel better about it, right? It's like just start doing whatever you want to do. We have so many resources now in our world and our in our generation that it's not hard to connect with people in the world of anything. It's really not. It doesn't take a lot of effort. And if you put some effort into just starting something, you'll quickly learn that you probably can do whatever you want to do. Like, yeah, it seems like a big part of your story, too, is just like the kind of curiosity. And then also, not waiting for permission, right? So you were, you were what was, it was called the, the hair razors. Yes. The part of the dunk team, right? Yeah. This is like, this is the entertainers during the halftime show and they would just, you would come out and you would dunk, right? I don't think many people could see like a seamless transition. I mean, obviously it makes a little bit of sense, but you wouldn't think like, first and foremost, you're like an athlete and an entertainer, but then to be able to kind of step back and then help to manage and run the entertainment, I feel like that's, that's a pretty big step for you. How was that trend? How did you make that happen? How did you land the job? That's a great question. I think one big part of it. What's that? Literally, I was just a good person. And I was a person that people like to be around. And I think that is so important for everyone to, to be like, just try to be the best version of who you are. Ultimately, I made a lot of mistakes, but most importantly, I didn't make the same mistakes twice. And I think that's the only reason why I was able to progress. I listened and I learned. I did everything wrong. Don't get it twisted. I was not the brightest guy. I was like, I did everything wrong, but I never did that thing again. And when I did something wrong, I accepted it and I acknowledged it and I apologized for it. I owned it. You know, I took accountability. And I'm so grateful that my parents taught me to do that. Because taking accountability for when you make a mistake is the most important thing you could do, especially in the corporate world or any type of business you're trying to do, because people will respect you. And as long as you don't do it again and again and again, they'll say, that person is growing, that person is learning. And so that's what I did. So I'll explain it quickly, right? I'm a dunker. That's it. I offer my time. I go the extra mile. I come into the office. I learn as much as I can in my role. I then become the right hand for my boss who is a mascot. So what that means is when my boss goes like this, I know that means he needs a doll. When he goes like this, I know that means he needs his confetti spray. I learned his job so well that I make his job easier for him and I become valuable. So I went from being a dunker to now being a valuable dunker. Because I know everything about my boss's job and I make my boss's life easier. So when I'm not around, he's like, man, it's not as easy. So that's valuable, right? So then because I'm doing so much stuff that I can't pay to do, I'm just offering it, right? We get opportunities where we're going to schools. And typically a full-time employee from the sixes would join the mascot and talk to the kids. But that's inconvenient for a full-time employee. But since I've gained trust from the organization being around my boss all the time, he says, Why don't we try it out with Christian? So now I'm a dunker that goes to schools and hosts at assemblies. From doing that, they recognize my talent. Wow, this kid can speak, right? And so they're like, hmm, well, he's getting known more. He's getting better at the dunks. The fans are comfortable with them. Let's have him host our season ticket holder events. So now go from being a dunker to the right hand of my boss. To kind of the guy who hosts sometimes at these sixes events. So you see the evolution here, it's just, this is how it happened, right? Yeah, and so these moments are, they seem pretty small and insignificant. But I'm sure, like in the moment, these are pretty nerve wracking, right? Your first season ticket holder event. Your first time speaking to kids at a school, like, Each of those moments are like, you're like, am I ready for this yet? Right? You're exactly right. And you know, you're so right. Like, I remember the first time I did the school assembly. It felt like how I felt last night. Yeah, yeah, let's start game. Like, it was just like, I don't want to mess this up. Like, I'm representing the sixes. Like, what am I doing? I'm about to be on the microphone. Like, 300 kids. Like, what am I going to do? But now I think, but I think that, no, it's just a school assembly. Yeah. No, it was a big deal. And I think what was important is that I thought it was a big deal. And I cared about it. And I treated it that way. You know, I prepared. And I did the best that I could. And I think that energy was recognized. And I think between that and just genuinely wanting to do better and wanting to do more, it helped me grow. And so it came in time where we had to lock out and I discontinued hip-hop to character. So there was no more mascot. And they came to me and I said, Christian, we want you to run the dunk team. We're not going to discontinue the dunk team. We're just going to discontinue the mascot. And they asked if I wanted to take over. And I said, yeah. And that was my opportunity to prove that I could be a leader. And that I could manage. And it was not easy. It was not just a cool transition where I was like, yeah, I'm a dunker. And now I'm in charge. Right. It was a struggle. And I made a lot of mistakes. But again, like I said, I learned from him. And I did well. And so not long after I was the coach of the dunk team, they were looking to hire a new coordinator. And I remember the guy's name is Derek Hayes. He's the director of the game presentation for six years. And he was interviewing people from the Lakers, the Chicago Bulls. Like all these different people going for the job. And the vice president, Laura Price, came to him. I was like, well, why don't you interview Christian? Because at that point, I was in the office every day anyway. And I wasn't getting paid for it. But I was just putting in the time. He was like, oh my god, I never thought about it. But yeah, like he'd be great. And he came to me and was like, what'd you do this? And I knew that I knew deep down inside always wanted to be an entertainer. And I didn't really want to have a desk job. But I also knew that I lacked a lot of skills in that area of my life. And I knew if I took the job, it would help me so much. And so I took it. I took the job. And I was introduced to a whole new world, the corporate world. Something I never experienced before. I never had to show up and be at a desk 8 a.m. every day before. Yeah, the work you had to, you have to retire. Oh, shit. I did. I did it. I don't do that now. But when I started it full time, I wore suits to work every day. It was weird. Yeah. And I was just a new world. I was introduced to naturally. And I looked back and I think that was the best decision I made my entire life. Because I didn't even know what I didn't know. And I fell in love with entrepreneurship. And I fell in love with corporate culture and business. Only through taking that full time job with the sixers. And I wouldn't have even known that to stuff existed. And I wouldn't be sitting here talking to you today if I had said no to that job. What do you like about that? The business side of things. Like what drew you to that? You know, I think what I love about business is finding new ways to get people to buy into something. Like, and having a user brain and saying, How do I get other people to believe in X, Y, and Z? And how do I give them a service that makes someone to continue to give me revenue? Like, how do I... Like, the thought of that is really cool to me because I like creating. And I feel like you're saying like when we were talking earlier, it's one thing to be creative, but it's another thing to know how to get your creative scene. Like, marketing side of it. Yeah. Those are two different things. And the craziest part about it is how it's not black and white. It's not that easy. It's not... You're not going to read a book on marketing and figure out how to grow my audience from X to Z. It's incredibly challenging and it's a lot of trial and error. But I think that's what like businesses in general, right? It's like... And that's actually like... I've said this before, but how I see success is... You know, first you just got to work hard. You got to bust your ass. You really got to put it in the time and the energy and you really have to try to make it work. But then you also need to be able to change things up, right? Like, if you keep doing the same thing and get the same results and you don't change anything, that's insane. So you need to be able to say, All right, well, let me try this if this doesn't work. Let me try this and then you just have to keep going and keep doing that. And then eventually you'll get lucky. Eventually, somebody's gonna say, hey, if you thought about Christian for the job or like, hey, if you thought of, you know, you should follow Matt or whatever. And then it's just slowly you build up. But like, you know, there's no... It's not easy. If it was easy, everybody would do it and everybody would be successful. It's not easy, right? One of my favorite quotes. I don't even know who made this quote up. But if you want something you never had. You got to do something you'd never not. You'd never done. I think it was Einstein. Is that Einstein? I don't know. I don't know. It was Lincoln. I don't know. You want something never had to do something never done. Yes, sir. It's really true. And it's really simple, too, right? It's really simple. It's not as hard as people think. People create excuses and make it much harder and much more difficult than it really is. It's not. It's just a matter of, like you said, trial and error. Be having this strength to keep going when you have nothing left. And if you... It's all mental. It's like, just know that you're going to figure it out. And if you can just continue to reassure yourself that through the trial and error, you're going to be successful. It's really that simple. Like, it's... You can only fail so many times. Unless you're just... Unless you really enjoy failing and you keep doing the same thing. And you just don't want to accept a truth. Just sabotaging yourself. Right. Like, if you just don't want to accept a truth. But if you accept every truth that's thrown your way and you learn from every failure, you're going to get better and you're going to succeed. It's just natural. Like, as long as you are accountable, you're going to be okay. Like, it's really not that hard. Unless you're just making excuses for yourself. You don't. You have to give yourself that opportunity to grow. And like you said, it's like that first day going to the gym. You know, in New Year's everybody has the resolution to go to the gym and get in shape. But it starts to kind of weed out and people don't stick with it. And that's the number one thing. Like, if you just... First, if you get there, but then how do you stay there? How do you keep going? And I guess that's a question, too. And I don't know if you have the answer for that one. But it's like, how do you keep that momentum going when you have doubt? Like, how am I going to keep this... How am I going to go from A to B to C? Yeah, I think the whole create your own luck thing is the best way to put it. It's like, ask yourself, like, take yourself out of your own life for a second. And ask yourself, would you hire yourself? Would you follow yourself? Would you listen to yourself? Like, would you buy a product from yourself? Like, and be honest with yourself. And then ask yourself, okay, well, if I wouldn't, why not? Like, what do I need to improve? And just improve it. It's like, it's really, it's like... All right, let me explain. It's a couple of things, right? It's like ego number one. People got to let go of these egos. For some reason, we as people... It's tough. You have to separate knowing your potential and knowing your worth, which is great. That's good. Do that. But separate that from reality for a second. You've got to tap into your reality. People stay too much over here and they're like, Well, I know I'm going to be this one day and I know I'm going to do that. And what they do is they don't want to take step one because they just want to be this right now. And they're so scared that people are going to look at them and be like, Oh, man, they're starting down there or they're doing that. Like, I thought they were cooler than that. Who cares if someone's saying that about you? Are they going to pay your bills? Are they going to do anything for you? Are they going to live with the results of your life? No, you are. Like, don't worry about those people. And probably those people don't care about you. And why are you worried about what they think anyway? And if they are people that care about you, oh well. Like, it's your life. Once again, you have to live with these results. People are so scared to start down here. And so they don't start at all. And it's a very common thing. It's like, people psych themselves out of even trying because they don't want to look less than Or they don't want to be judged or they don't want to publicly fail. Publicly fail. Just fail. You know what? You're one step ahead of someone who hasn't done anything. Fail twice. Your two steps ahead of someone who hasn't done anything. Fail three times. Your three steps ahead of someone who hasn't done anything. Because failure teaches you so many lessons and lead you to the next step of success. And you might go a year or even two years doing something to fail. Just to learn that that's not your path. But guess what? You have developed a series of skills and a series of things that have given you knowledge That will help you make the next step towards the right direction in your life. It's just everything that you do is a positive if you look at it from the right perspective. It's really that simple whether it be the bad things that happen to you or the good. And it's all about perspective and how you approach everything that happens to you in your life. Yeah, and I think it's like you said it's about being real and being honest with yourself. And I think that that's where social media can sometimes hurt us because on Facebook, on Instagram, we try to present the perfect already made it version of ourselves. The version that if everything would go right in the next 15 years, this is what my life would look like. And so then when you start to try to be real and you start to say, make a podcast or put out stuff and you know, authentically share how you're going through. And the struggle is you're going through. It's harder to do that because you're like, well, I've been faking it this whole time. Yeah. So but then the moment you are honest and you can actually tell me, hey, I had a really, you know, shitty day. Like it was really challenging. This is what I went through. I made this mistake. I made this failure. That's the stuff people care about. That's the stuff people want to hear about. And that's because it also makes people feel like, oh, like, I'm not the only one. I'm at the only one that's like sitting here, just making these mistakes every day and trying to learn. Yeah. You're so that is so accurate. And it's funny because it's like, everyone says that. But then everyone post stuff that they don't like other people to post. Right? Like, yeah, that's what you were saying, right? Is that like, like, think about yourself. Would you follow your own shit? And like, if it just appears like your life is perfect. You're like, I don't know if I want to see all that stuff. I want a little bit of realness in there. It's okay if your life is perfect, right? Because you're posting your truth. Yeah. You get what I'm saying. I get shit going well. That's great. You're posting your truth. And I'm not saying, like, you know, if you're down and out, you post yourself, like, You don't post like that. You're like, you're crying in the mirror. I'm not saying that. I'm not saying that. I don't know. Right. But like, you know, it's just when you're trying to, to create a brand or try to, Start a career or, you know, whether it be social media or whether it be just a career path or whatever. It's like, you just got to live in your truth. And I think that's what really helped me move ahead. I think I never tried to be perceived as something that I wasn't or someone that I wasn't. And I think people love that about me and respect that and want to support that. And even maybe sometimes where I wasn't the most experienced or the most intelligent. I had the most drive and the most passion and I had the most favor. And I think it comes from living in my truth and being open and willing to change and be flexible and be open-minded and grind. You know what I mean? And I'm still learning right now like, you know, with this startup live life nice that I have. I have partners that have been in the business for 20 plus years who know 10 times more than me and are 10 times smarter than me. And I'm learning so much working with them. And I'm learning a new perspective in the new language, how to speak to people, how to approach people, how to receive information. I'm learning how to think from a bigger standpoint than my own. And it's teaching me a new way to approach life and it's helping me grow as a person too. So I don't think that I would be able to even move forward in my career right now as I take my next step unless I change again. Like it's ever changing ever growing ever, ever green thing where you're just consistently having to learn how to evolve. And I think that's what success is if you think about any business or any celebrity or any musician or artist. Think about their beginning and now think about where they are now. Nine times out of ten, those people are completely different. What they're doing is completely different or sounds different or looks different. But they're still just a successful. And the reason is because they were able to evolve, adapt, grow and still continue to throw themselves into it and keep it unique and keep it them. But they were able to adjust and adapt and learn and grow. And you'll notice that pattern with the most successful people. They're not the same as you probably would remember their start or their claim to fame. They're not the same. They grow and they change. And if you're not willing to do that, you're probably not going to become successful. Live life nice. Give me a quick. I got some questions about it. So just give me that quick like overview. It's just like something that you've been working on for a while though. So I've seen some videos like I was, you know, did a little bit of research here. But even was a 2010, 12. Like you've been working on this project for a little while. Yeah, and this is, it all comes back to what I said just start now. This live life nice was a start now. It's, I started something like this over 10 years ago. It went from being a slogan I said with my friends. Where did nice guys to being a T-shirt company? Nice brand. To now a caused driven digital media company in a parallel company live life nice. Our sole purpose is to empower motivate and inspire people to be nice and do nice. And we want to do that through telling stories, making an impact to those stories, challenging people's way of thinking with those stories and then giving a call to action after those stories. For people to take action. Also when our show's from media, if you check it out, every post that we make, we want to have some type of impact. We want someone to be able to take something from it. Whether it be a simple message of do something nice for someone or whether it be someone's personal story that make someone go, wow, I can definitely identify with that. And wow, I should definitely make that change. Yeah, that adjustment. Man, I should tell that person. I love them or men. I should really do something nice for this person. It's done that for me. We kind of want to leave people with those gems and motivate them to just live life nice. It's really that simple. We have a big partnership that I'm going to be announcing soon with a huge, media conglomerate, one of the biggest in the world. We'll be creating digital content for them and also our apparel. We're looking to get with some national retail. I have some pretty big announcements in the future. But for now, we're going to start on social media. And we're going to start creating some short form and some long form pieces that will probably launch in a summer. Right now, we're just social media. But it's really simple, man. We're just a digital media company that creates a parallel that basically inspires people to be nice. I love it. It's like so fast. The simplest idea is that the best. And it's so nice to make, because I have an idea that I've been working on for a video. I'm starting to do these like direct message type things. Just with some ideas of my own about how to run a business, how to grow something, how to make a better podcast. And one of my, the videos is called, it may not, this is not the same voice that you have. But it's like a nice, you asshole. So it's like, and I'm just trying to like, I'm still working on this script. But like the whole idea is that I have experiences since I started. And you know, a lot of people have this expectation of like a business person. Is this hard edge like really not nice person that will walk over everybody to get to the top. And I've experienced that in my professional life. And like I've worked with people who don't make me feel good. Don't make me feel comfortable. Kind of pin you into a place that you don't want to go, right? Like you know, people that are very manipulative and can kind of work their way to getting what they want. And then you leave the conversation agreeing with them, but then you're like, wait a minute, wait. Why did I just agree to do that? Yep. But it doesn't have to be that way. And there are so many other people that I know that are genuine, that care about me, that are nice. That I think do it the right way. And it's like, why choose that path? And I guess my question is, why do you think some people go down that path and like feel like they need to be assholes? Feel like they need to kind of give that negative energy out there. I think that it's a very common trait that people have at the top. And when I say what I'm referring to like being negative, being a condescending or being rude or being whatever you want to call it, right? It's a common theme. I don't know why. Maybe it's intimidation, maybe it's people look at it, it's a sign of power. But I think the people that aren't that way evolved into becoming that way because they feel like they have to because they feel like they won't be successful otherwise. And maybe they look up to the people that are that way and they just want to become successful, so they follow suit, right? Even if they don't agree with it. I think that happens too much. And I agree with you. I don't think it's necessary. I don't think you have to lead by using fear. I don't think you have to, I don't think you have to do that to become respected or to acquire power. I think, honestly, the best leaders are the complete opposite. The real leaders are the complete opposite way. Fear, it definitely can obviously controls a massive people. You can control a large group of people with fear, right? But you can also influence a large group of people by doing the right thing by being a good person and by speaking truth and doing good by people. And that has been proven over the course of history time after time. And for me, I guess, like, I love what you're working on because that is exactly why I started this. I always felt like growing up a couple things. One, I hated how in the world of media, it's always negative. Negative stuff gets the most attention and the most praise. Always, I hate that. I feel like there's so much going on in the world that it's positive. And no one cares about it because we're trained to not care about it. We're brought up, not caring about it. It's something that we don't, no one teaches us when we're young to acknowledge and to praise the good things happening. We're taught to talk about things that are happening bad in our world. It's what we see on the news every day, all day. And not that we shouldn't be informed. But I think that if maybe we saw a little bit more of the people who were doing great things and maybe if we heard more about it, and maybe if those people were praised and acknowledged the same way that these negative people are, it would inspire more people to be that way as well. And I think it's lacking, especially in a time like now. We're not hearing a lot of positive things and a lot of people feel hopeless. And when you're hopeless, it leads you to negative things. But when you're hopeless and you think, well, we got nothing to look forward to. I might as well do whatever I want and go, you know, like nothing positive comes from that. So I think my purpose and one of my goals is to have to make a change to that. Why I'm not going to sit around and complain about that anymore. I'm going to do something about it. Am I going to change the world? I don't know. Hopefully, but I'm going to be able to live my life saying, I did everything that I could to make a change to that. Latching on to that idea and taking more action versus just posting prayers, praying for you or, you know, hashtag this. Like now, let's go a little further now. Let's do something. Yeah, I think what's amazing today. And a lot of people don't realize it, right? There's a lot of negativity just across the board on in media. And like, because I think that's probably what gets the most clicks. It's usually pretty sensational. Like the feel of good stories. They have one per, you know, nightcast. But now it's like obviously moving away from that. We're moving away from the point where we have no control over the media we consume. Like it used to be, you just turn on the TV and you can decide, oh, I don't want this. I want this. But today, people don't realize it, but you have 100% control over the people you follow through Facebook, through everything you do. You may not have complete control over the advertisements that you're served to you. They still do reflect the thing, you know, I mean, they got the cookies and the algorithms. They're following you around. So there is a element of control to what ad does you get served. But, you know, go through your Twitter feed, your Instagram, and make sure you unfollow people that are consistently negative. That maybe aren't serving you or adding value to your life. And then add live life nice on every account. But I mean, if you follow people like that, like organizations like that, and people like you who are spreading a positive message, that's not really matters. It's like when you think about just like, you know, I bring this up a lot, but it's like somebody beeps at you on the side of the road or they're like behind you and like they wait one second when the like goes green and they start honking their point at you. And you're like, can you relax? But then like obviously that influences you. That changes your mood. And all of a sudden that like do that takes forever for me to just shake off. Like I'm not that good at just forgetting about things. I'm like, I've never been behind you before. Like I've never been to you and you go boom. But it's like directed to the person. No, I never know. I didn't know that was a positive thing. Yeah, yeah, I've created that. That's not nice. Yeah, it's not nice. Yeah, it's not nice. Everyone wants it a while. We have a bad day. But no, it's definitely one of the things that like, you know, and the people in your life, you know, your close friends, your family, the people that you interact with, you got to make sure that you're allowing positivity and like say if you really want to grow, or you want to like learn how to be better at business, surround yourself with people that are better than you at that. Yes. That's the only way, I think. Yes. I completely agree with that. Your circle, like reflects who you are. And I know kids here at that and are like, what are you talking about? I can't show it. I do it every I want. But like, no, no, no, no, don't get a twist it. If you are the, you should never be in a circle where you are the smartest person the brightest person. You want to surround yourself around people who are challenging you, who are teaching you, who are lifting you up, who are motivating you and inspiring you to be better. Somebody asked me yesterday, they're like, what is your dream girl? Like, what's your dream girl? Like your perfect girl? And my answer was someone who always make me want to be a better person. Someone who literally motivates me to like be like, man, she is so, like, I gotta catch up. Like, that's my perfect woman. Someone who makes me better. Someone who inspires me to become a better person. I feel like you always want to surround yourself around people like that. Like, whether it be your friends, whether it be your mentors. And that's another thing, finding a mentor. And it's not that hard to find a mentor. A true somebody who's doing something positive who has wisdom who can help you. And if you can't find a mentor in person, sometimes it's tough when I was starting out. You find someone along the way, but books were huge for me. Because then it's the kind of guiding wisdom and principles and just integrity, right? Like, there's certain things that you need to learn when you're young that will carry through, but mentors huge. Yeah, it is. I think people forget about that, you know, and they feel pressure and feel like they have to do it by themselves. And sometimes they feel like they don't have support from their parents or they might not have parents. You know, or they might feel neglected from that standpoint. They might try to say, well, I'm just going to get all this energy and motivation to do it on my own type of a thing. And they forget like, hey, hey, hey, hey, it doesn't have to be your mom. It doesn't have to be your dad. It doesn't have to be your cousin. It could be a stranger or it could be a book. But you should go, you should have something you can go to. And you should prioritize sometime in your life to find that something. Like, that should be something important to people. And I think that is a thing that a lot of people forget to do is find a mentor, find a person that you can always lean on for advice when you need it. Because there's going to be plenty of times like that in your life where you're just not going to have to answer. And that's fine. Right. And that's where the actual human mentors in person are on the phone help because everybody circumstances are different. I started to take questions on the podcast too because it's like, I want to hear exactly what people are going through. What I'm trying to do now is actually get like very specific. So say like somebody's like a producer and they have a beat that they want to like get feedback from. And send in the beat and then I'll have like a wrapper on the show and then we can talk about it. I love that. But I feel like there needs to be like, you need really specific advice and guidance. And sometimes you can hear somebody else's story and get some lessons from that. But if you know somebody you can go to and be like, hey, listen, I'm having a problem with this. You know, what would you do in my situation? Right. And a lot of times there's not an easy answer, right? It's like it's never easy. When you have like these challenging questions, we're like, I don't know what to do. A lot of times it's the most difficult answer is the right one. It's having that conversation that you don't want to have. Right. How many times have you just put off that conversation because you're like, oh, God, that's going to be uncomfortable. Like, you know, you're in a terrible relationship. You want to break up. How long are you going to put that off for, right? Like you can't put off your life. You need to eventually like face those challenging conversations to be able to to grow from that. Now that right there, you could have a whole show about that topic. Right. Yo, you're right. Like life is hard. So it's going to be hard. Whether you're doing what you love to do or whether you're doing what you hate to do. So what in your rather go through life, which is going to be hard regardless. Yeah. Doing what you love to do or at least trying to. Yeah. Because life is going to be hard regardless. Right. Yeah. You got to get that shit out of the way. The stuff that's on your to do list that you keep pushing to the next day. Keep pushing in the next day. Get it done. Get it out of there. And then all of a sudden your mind is clear. And then you can work on the shit you need to work on. Whether it's your taxes or whether it's a conversation, just get it done today. It's just and again, it's like, You just got to stop being so afraid. You just got to stop being so scared to lose. You're already losing. You're losing by not doing anything. You're losing by not taking action. Whether it's getting healthier. Whether it's making more money or whether it's changing your profession. You're losing by not trying. Stop listening to everyone else and following everyone else's path and doing what people are telling me to do that. You don't even know. Just do what you want to do. You're going to be happy. I feel like you are somebody who's. So I'm getting better at doing like interviews. I mean, I'm coming from I'm coming from behind the camera. So I like I feel like, you know, I'm over 50 episodes in at this point. I feel like I've learned a lot, but I feel like you've also probably learned a ton in terms of interviewing people high pressure situations. How do you approach those situations where you're like, you know, anything can happen? And you want to make sure, I don't know, do you do prep like every interview you do? A lot of times you just have to kind of know fly in there, right? So I think where I get the best engagements and interactions is when I do not plan. What I do is I get my knowledge. I do my upfront research on the person so that ultimately if this thing crashes and burns, I'll have a list of questions and ask. But I'm hoping that when I start the interview, I don't ask any of them because I'm hoping that I can start conversation with this person and get some info that I wouldn't know to ask because this person's just going to talk. And I'm going to ride off that. So I've also noticed when I'm throwing into situations with no prep, last minute changes, when I try to, there's this moment where you're like, you only have a couple seconds to put it together. Right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm talking about it all the time. It's like how I live my life and it's terrifying. When I try to put together a plan in that little bit of time, it usually fumbles. When I get that moment, I go, nope. Not even going to think about it. I look at whatever I have to do and I just do it literally. And the only reason I'm successful is because I'm confident about it. I just go into it like, this is going to be fine. And it always ends up being fine. Right. And the few times that I've went into it like, this might not work out. Guess what? It didn't work out. I think it actually, right? I thought about doing that is like, we try to have a sense of control. And we try to over-prepare for an interview and we try to figure out everything that we could possibly say and every question we could have. But as you and I both know, you enter a conversation. You have two people. There's a chemistry with any two people that come together. Yep. And that conversation is going to unfold in ways that you would never expect. And when you're trying to plan and this is actually one of the things that I love about doing these podcasts in person is that it's first of all. It's just intimate. It's like you actually get to meet people and connect. But like, yeah, I could do about 20 phone call podcasts interviews a day and just go through a list. But then you're like, that's not what people want. That's not what I want. I don't want to just go question one. Question two. Really about, you know, exactly like the advice that we're giving or the specific takeaways. It's about a feeling you get after leaving that conversation. You're like, oh, shit. Okay, cool. Like there's, I definitely learned a lot from that. But it's more of like a knowing than a like a knowledge thing where you're just memorizing facts and figures. Right. Exactly. I think this is important. I love what you're doing because I know when I'm watching interviews or podcasts that are similar to this. I, what I want to learn is like the person and how they think and how they articulate and why they did what they did or or what was what was a motivation behind what they did. You know, and these conversations are important. We could never have this type of interaction via phone call. I'm looking at you. We're talking and you're getting stuff out of me that I wouldn't have been able to say if I was answering a Q&A email or whether if we were on a call. You know, like, it's great. And Kudos hats off to you. I love what you're doing. Thanks, man. You're really good at what you do. So, I mean, that's why I'm here. I literally hit you up. Yeah, you're like, I love it. Yeah, I was like, oh, shit. This dude looks like he's doing it's a pretty dope shit. No, it's definitely, it's all about learning, man. And I just have this photographer, Caroline Lee on. And we were just talking about just making something, putting it out there. And she was, it was all about rejecting perfection and not trying to make everything pixel perfect. And that's how I felt and still feel about this podcast. And it's like, I find subtle ways to improve. I find ways that things that work and things that don't work. But if I never put out that first one, if I just waited and maybe just kept recording but then not releasing. Right. I wouldn't have learned as much. And I wouldn't have been able to grow. And then you kind of, as the audience grows, you can kind of learn with them. And you can kind of figure out the direction you want to take it and head. But without that first step, you're kind of, you're not going to be able to actually evolve. Yeah, I completely agree. I just feel like. I'm trying to articulate it in a cooler way. That's the story of my life, too. I say this in a better way. How do I say this? You know my favorite thing about making a podcast is that I get to edit it later. So if I sound like an idiot, dude, you know what I do? Sometimes I just have these rambling thoughts for like five minutes. And I'm like, I didn't even say anything. Because I'm trying to get to the question. Yeah. And I'm like, I'm just going to blabber on because I know that I'm going to give my stuff going to pause. All right. So my question. And then I can just cut it. And it's perfect. Now sometimes a lot of times lately I've just been leaving it in. And I'm like, ah, screw it. Then that's part of the evolution of like being okay with being an idiot. Because if I if I make sense 80% of the time. I think my audience will forgive me when I sound like an idiot for five. We all know you're not an idiot. So it's okay. If you sound like an idiot a couple times, you know what it does? It makes you human. My dad said he said, uh, it's all right. And this is the be nice thing. It's like, it's all right to act like an asshole every once in a while. Just don't be one. Be one. So that to me is like, you know what, we all have our bad days. We all, you know, our little foggy sometimes. But yeah, as long as you just keep putting in the work and edit it out. The times you make mistakes, everything will be good. Sweet man. Real talk. Uh, you want to do quick questions. Uh, quick questions not quick answers. So okay. You can elaborate. You don't have to feel like you need to answer them. Uh, super pithy. Cool. But just kind of ways to expand the conversation a little. Okay. It's funny because I do. This is having to be like twice. It was as rich role too. Like, oh, how do you like interview people? Like first of all, I don't ask any questions that I wrote down. And then I'm like, uh, next question. I have three questions here. And it just happened on this one. But anyway. That's great. I like it because, uh, I don't know. No, listen, I think it's more so like, you know, the type of interviews I do are live. You know? Yeah. And it's like, I'm, I'm like doing this. Like a lot of them are so quick. Yeah. Like 30, 45 seconds. One minute, two minute at the most to get of really good interaction with someone. Yeah. So like, for me to go, how are you feeling today? He might say something like, I slipped on a banana pill today, but you know what? I'm feeling good. I don't want to go to question two and say, Uh, are you enjoying your time here? No, I want to say, wait a minute. You slipped on a banana pill? Of course I didn't write for question two. Wait a minute. You slipped on a banana pill. Yeah. Totally. Let's do these questions. Let's do this. I want you to ask every single one that you wrote down. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. That's going to take us a while. What book has had the biggest impact on your life? What book had the biggest impact on my life? So there's a book called The Truth About Lying by Judith Vierst. I used to lie a lot and after I read that book, I stopped. I think that a lot of people, almost, well, everyone lies every now and again, but a lot of people are liars and they don't know they are. And I think it's good for you to acknowledge that you are a liar and stop doing it. It will make you a better person. It will help you be an honest person and it will help others around you. Respect you a whole lot more. That's one of those conversations that's so fun to have. So Sam Harris has a book called Lying as well. And I think it's based upon a conversation or a lecture class that he had in college. And it's just the idea that you don't ever have to lie. You know, somebody says, hey, what do you make? What's your salary? I don't feel comfortable answering that question. You didn't lie and you didn't tell them. You know what I mean? There's ways that you can go about your life and be truly authentic. Not have to remember all these lies that stack upon each other. And you know, what's worse than getting caught in a lie? And then something you feel like a fraud. Your character is in jeopardy. It's just, and it all comes back to what we were saying. Because this will affect your career. This will affect your relationships with not only your family. Maybe your significant other. Maybe your friends, right? It's like, people won't always tell you how they feel about you. And that's, you know, they might feel a certain way about you because you lie. And that person is lying to themselves because they're not even being honest with you. How they feel about you. But it's just a bunch of lies. It's lies both ways, right? If you were, but if you are so honest with yourself and so honest with others, they will feel more obligated to be the same back to you. And you could spread that. And then if you're comfortable with yourself again, like I said, it'll help you progress in your own life. Dude, documentary. Just watch it last night. And I think it's called the Armstrong lie. Lance Armstrong. Holy shit. That's crazy. Because like his whole life was just guys in lies stacked on top of lies. And it's like, it's crazy. It's crazy. It's a story like that. I definitely recommend it because we kind of all grew up to love Lance Armstrong. And like love what he's done through sports. And then all of a sudden you find out that he's been doping this whole time. And then lying about it. Yeah. Oh, shit. Do I know this person? What drives you? What drives me? My family. They are my motivation. They are my everything. They are the people who inspire me to be better. And they are the people who I want to be better for. And life without them would be very, very purposeless. I wouldn't know what to do where to go or why. I love my family. And everything I do is in hopes that I can make my family happy and live happy lives. And thinking about my family makes me happy and thinking about family in general makes me happy. And I aspire to one day have my own family and fill the same way about them as well. You know, family comes in all different ways. It might not be by blood. But it's the most important thing to have in your life. Here you go. Nothing else matters. And for anyone who may have forgotten that, please tap back into it. Because there was a point in time in my life where I forgot that. And I neglect the very thing that drove me to get where I got. And money has never choose money over family. Never choose anything over your family. Love it, man. What one skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others happen? I think that's a great question. But I'm going to say this. I'm going to say my transparency is a gift. I think that I have figured out a way to appropriately present myself as myself in every situation and every platform of my life. I'm going to say that professionally. Relations, everything. And it's helped me develop this unique genuine energy that people gravitate to. And that's what's kind of helped me along the way. So basically, I figured out a way to like not, I can't explain it. Like for example, if I'm around a billionaire or a millionaire or a very important person. I've figured out a way to where I can still engage with that person. And a way that no one would ever do. Like, Christian, how did you just say that or do that? But still managed to be so like respectful and not cross the line. I've just figured out how to do that. I figured out how to be me in every situation. So I'll call it transparency and I've used that to develop relationships with people. And it's not like I'm doing it on purpose. Like it happens naturally. But I think because of that natural gift that I have, I've acknowledged it over the course of time. And now I understand why maybe I get in situations where it's like, He shouldn't be in that situation. How did he get in that situation? That's how. Right. Yeah, totally. No, because I think we all have a tendency to play the part. Right. And so when you're at the grocery store, you play the part as the person that's buying the groceries. Or when you're at the cashier, you play the part as a cashier. Hey, how's it going? How's your day going today? And not really infusing your personality into that. And being like, hey, you know what? I'm not just a cashier. You do I am. Yeah, articulate it that way better than me. Thank you. I think you did all right. You got it. So a couple more questions here. What's the simplest advice? That's the most important to follow. Start now. Start now. Stop waiting. Stop waiting. Go. Do it. Mess up. Make mistakes. Look stupid. Just go. Stop waiting. How do you got? Look stupid down. So I got this fun thing where I'm trying to get the rock on my podcast. I don't know if you saw. I got the rock right behind on your shoulder up here. Sexy man. Yeah, it's amazing. So it's, you know, I'm trying to figure out a way to get him on my podcast. Let's do it. I wonder if you have any advice for me. I have at him every day. That's what I do. No, I got a website. Have you seen the website? No. Show me right now. Let me bring this up. You at him every day. No, but my audience does. Because I have a tweet button on the website. So this is get the rock on matspodcast.com. Yeah, no. I got this is like the whole about. And then look this massive tweet button. So you click on the tweet button. And then it automatically pulls up randomly generated tweets for the rock. I've got 15 to 20 of these to happen here. So how much content have you made based around this idea? A couple of videos. I got gifts here. Because I carry around the rock on my wallet every day. Is he like your man crush? Is he like your boy? Dude, it started out as a joke. And then it just got real. Like, well, because it started out as me being like, All right, who would be the like the all time. Like, so awesome. Who would be the all time interview? Who has the best ground up story? Like, the rock started out $7 to his name. Like, and the dude has just reinvented himself. So many times. Sorry. And now he's on the top. Also, it's the challenge. He's the busiest person on the planet. Like legitimately does three movies. Two movies a year. So it's like, how do I get his attention? And then how do I get him to come over to my apartment? Well, I think you're off to a wonderful start. You have a website dedicated to it. That's not like that. That took a lot of time. Which is a better website than I've seen from businesses. And I think you have all the situation. No. What I would say is don't try to reach out to him. Yeah. I would start to really reach out to people on his team. Have you done that? The biggest step I've had is Brian Bowen's Smith. As a celebrity photographer out here in LA. I had him on the podcast. And then, like, it just came up in the interview that he's their friends. And I was like, what? So he actually, like, he added him and he took a photo with the rock and posted on Instagram. So, you know what, who knows? I have a feeling that he might have heard of it. But then also, if he did, he, you know, this should happen this in all the time. This is just a daily current for him. So he probably, it's okay. So here's my last form of advice for you. Yeah. And I think you have what it takes to figure this out. Develop an incentive that will not benefit him or you. But will benefit thousands of people. I've thought about that. But here's the problem that I worry about. Is that I don't want to, like, almost be a guilt thing, right? Be like, hey, if we raise X amount of money. Why not? So, like, you're kind of strong arming him in a way, right? If I say, if I'll raise $50,000 for charity. But I have to, I feel like I have to have the rock to agree to the terms, right? Of course he would. No, but I, yeah. But like, you, you, you would want to have the discussion with him Sure. Sure. Putting it right out. Yeah. I think that makes sense. I think that that's fine. Yeah. But I think you should take that initiative. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Yeah. He's not going to do it. He's busy. And I have to do something, like, right? Yeah. And I think at the end of the day, that's what it's going to be. It's, you know what I mean? I would like at the end of the day to be able to say if he does come on the podcast. How can we make this? How can we actually help? How can we actually, you know, contribute to his charity? Maybe we could have a call to action that would be like, you know, go to get the rock on that's podcast.com. And then there's a donate button where all the proceeds go to charity. I totally don't like that. That's great. I think that's the way to do it. But, um, so I think I got to try to get in with his PR. It's some making some phone calls. You know what I mean? It's not hard actually. So I needed to get in contact with Tina Fey one time. Yeah. And I was just like, I don't know where to start. Google Tina Fey's manager. I Google it literally is a number. Because those people are are accessible. They have to be the agents in the managers. Literally called the number. I'm like, hey, I'm looking for Tina Fey and I got in contact and sent the email and like literally five minutes. So that's just an example of like, you could probably get in contact with Rob's team. Um, ASAP. Yeah. And I think the idea is going to be normal. I'm surprised you haven't already. You probably have having you. No, I've been sleeping. I've been, I didn't do that. Oh, my two do list. I keep pushing it. Stop pushing it all. Yo, let me show you. You're going to email them as soon as we're done this. This is podcast. Okay. Tuesday. Tuesday. For the day. Oh my god. Call the rocks puzzles. I've been pushing it. I wouldn't love to see the, like, I would love to see the rock on this podcast. No, it's not like no one will just try out a rock. Just Isaac, everything will be awesome. Everyone's like businesses and antibiotics keep coming that they, I don't think just keeps doing it. And I feel like they did. Was like I'm giving up, they were like, you can't without money for packing or whatever, it's just like? This is all of the way. When I got in on the street, that's what I was going to remember. In this house. You can't do it in this house. I don't know anything that I don't know here. Rock out. You need to do something so legendary that he will never forget coming into this house to talk to you. Yeah. It's going to happen. If you run into him, just, you know, I'm actually going to hit up a couple of my friends. So I'm pretty cool with one of Kevin Hart's managers. That's it. That's very, very close, obviously. So I'll shoot him and know and see what he says. I don't know. My friend Matt is insane. No, I will. I'm going to. Yeah, I love you. Thank you so much, of course. All right, cool. Just a couple more questions here and we'll wrap up. So one thing to read, watch or listen to before my audience goes to bed tonight. What should they? I'll go watch or listen to you. There's a book called Leadership and Self-Deception. Let me get the artist for you, real quick. All right, so it's, it's by the Arbanger Institute. It is a brilliant book. It changes. It helps change your perspective on everything. That happens to you in your life. And I think if you have the, the right positive perspective on anything, you will always evolve into a better person, coming out of any experience, whether it's losing someone close to you, it's going bankrupt, whether it's gaining weight when you don't want to. Anything that comes your way, if you look at it with the right perspective, you'll be able to tackle it, handle it, and evolve from it in a better way, in a positive way. And it's really helped me. It's really, really helped me. It's really good. Leadership and self-deception. Got it. I'll check that one out. Do it. And to finish up, what's the best place for people to connect with you online? I know you got a couple. Best place for people to connect with me would be, number one would be Instagram. Number two would be Twitter. Number three would be Facebook. At Christian Cross beyond all of them. But not what much rather everyone follow live life nice. We just launched our social media. And it's just to be getting like, we have so much. We've been filming that we are not probably going to release until the summer, which I can't wait. But live life nice. Please support that. It's a great man. It's really going to make an impact because we are always going to put purpose before money. And I know, like you said, you have to keep the money to keep the business alive. But I think what will keep the business alive will be the purpose, because people can see through businesses and some people can see through movements and see through the purpose behind stuff. And when they know it's not real, they don't want to support it. So we're going to stick with purpose. And we want the people that really care to be our group of people that support us. So rock out with us. Hi, man. Thanks so much for coming on the show. Dude, thank you so much for having me. We did it. Definitely got a nice tea for you. Hell yeah. I'm a big supporter of yours. So anything I can do to help you, please let me know. Oh, man. Thank you so much. Thanks, man. All right. All right. That was the episode for today. That was Christian Cross B. As always. I hope you guys got some value out of it. I hope you like this show. I certainly really enjoyed producing this one. I feel like there's just like an energy. Like you meet people from Philly. You can kind of tell. I feel like there's like just a natural camaraderie when like you've lived in a city. Uh, it's the same city as somebody for any period of time. So it's it's called a be able to to catch up and talk with Christian here. Uh, was really excited to get him on the show. Let's see here as always. Let's wrap up with a couple of ways to support the show. We don't do advertising here. I don't bother you with trying to sell you underwear or mattresses. But I do bother you and ask you to leave a review or rating on iTunes. That would be hugely helpful. Uh, or you could share your favorite episode with a friend. It might be this one. And lastly, you can send in your questions. If you've got a question for the podcast. Uh, the new segment that we've been working on answering your questions has been a lot of fun. And it's been a chance for me and my guests to to kind of get to the bottom of whatever you're struggling with. So if you have a question for the podcast for me or for my guests. Send them in to hello at MattDevelop.com. As always, your support of this show is what I enjoy most about it. It's it's amazing to hear from you and to to get your support being through world. So thank you guys so much and I'll see you next week.
