# My Minimalist Home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ysge8Pl78zs
Visit https://skl.sh/mattdavella4 to get 2 months of Skillshare for free. Thanks to Skillshare for sponsoring this video!

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
Get Leah’s prints: https://www.leahsmark.com.au

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** minimalist, minimalism, tour, home tour, apartment, apartment tour, minimalist home, minimalist home tour, minimalist living, my minimalist home, minimalist apartment tour, minimalist house tour, minimalist lifestyle, my minimalist apartment, minimalist decor, how to be a minimalist, minimalist apartment, minimalist house, minimalist room tour, minimalist tips, becoming minimalist, how to become a minimalist, minimalist home house tour, 
**Date:** 2019-12-17

## Transcript
 Hi there, my name is Matt and I'm a minimalist. My wife and I recently moved into a beautiful minimalist home. It's much smaller than what we're used to, but I'd love to give you a tour. So one of the most difficult parts about having an all-white space like this is all the work it takes to keep it clean. I mean it's absolutely exhausting, but our made's do a pretty good job. This is my minimalist fireplace. This is my minimalist pool. This is our minimalist carpet. We have seven shandaliers. This tapestry cost $12,000. This cost $10,000. $18,000. $6,000. This is priceless. It's actually $20,000. We were very intentional with all the furniture we brought into the space. We wanted it to say, we're better than you. So I would love to introduce you guys to my wife Natalie. She's around here somewhere. Natalie! Natalie! Natalie! Hey, yeah, where are you? You're in the left wing. Where's the left wing? I didn't know we had wings. Did you take the golf cart? All right, so what do you say we check out the master bet? How's it going on? What are you doing? No, we got to go. Let's go. I'm sorry. Yeah, so like I said, my wife and I, we just moved into a beautiful minimalist apartment. It's an apartment. So this is our front entrance. This is what it looks like when we have guests over, and this is what it looks like almost every other day. The apartment is a pretty wide open space. We have the living room right here next to the entrance. We have a couch and an arm chair, but most of the time we use these big pillows and just sit on the floor. This plant is completely out of control. It was dying when we first moved into the place, but now, now it's a bit of a problem. We have a robot vacuum cleaner, and it's amazing. I was resistant to getting it at first, but my wife Natalie convinced me, and I don't regret buying it one bit. These drawers are filled with random stuff like books, my PlayStation 4, monopoly, capals, and cords. Moving along to the kitchen, and this is definitely my favorite part of the entire place. This is what our fruit bowl looks like when we have guests over, and this is what it looks like pretty much every other day, just one sad onion. When it comes to taking care of plants, our favorite kind are fake. These prints are from our friend Leah, back there description if you want to support the work and get some dope prints. This is our organized junk drawer, but to balance it out, we've also got this disorderly junk drawer. This is what's inside our fridge. I've resisted the urge to the tidy up before showing you, so this is actually what it looks like today. Lots of kimchi, and lots of sauces. This is our tiny pantry. We definitely need to go shopping. It's not a proper minimalist tour without making a pour over coffee. Plates cups and bowls go in these cabinets. We don't have a lot of storage in the rest of our apartment, so we make use of the spare cabinets in our kitchen. People often ask me, what's been my favorite part about moving from New York City to Los Angeles? This. This is the best part. And this right here is my studio. We moved into this space for two main reasons. We wanted to get away from the business of West Hollywood, and I wanted to have an additional room that I could use for a studio to work from. Ever since we moved in, I've been tinkering things around and moving furniture. You just painted the charcoal wall white again. I've got some more work to do, but I'm pretty happy with it. If you're interested in seeing a full tour of my studio, watch my video, tour my minimalist workspace. And this right here is our bedroom. If we hoard anything in this house, it's definitely candles. We love candles. We are boring people. We utilize some storage under the bed. This is my wife's side of the closet. Most of you have met her, but if you're new to the channel, she isn't a minimalist, though people are usually surprised by how little she actually owns. These are the few items that I have hanging into my closet. Not that it's a competition or anything, but if it was I totally win. The rest of my clothes are in this dresser, sock drawer, shirt drawer, shirts and pants go down here. And finally, our bathroom. That's our toilet. Okay, I think this tour is done. And that right there is our minimalist apartment. I hope you guys got something out of this maybe a little bit of inspiration for your own place. But if there's one thing I leave you with, it's that it doesn't matter how much stuff you own, whether you own a lot or a little, your net worth is not your true worth. Thank you guys so much for watching. Oh, by the way, this watch. $75. Hey guys, what's going on? My office is a little bit messy as you can tell. Look at that. Just graceful. So before I wrap up this video, I did want to talk about my sponsor, which is Skillshare. As you guys know, I am super passionate and committed to investing in self development and self growth, whether that's through books, horses or classes. And Skillshare has a ton of amazing classes that have helped me out a lot. One class I took earlier this year that has continued to add value to my life is Thomas Frank's productivity master class. If you often feel unproductive or disorganize, then this class will set you up with the tools and most importantly, the system to help you turn things around. Skillshare is super affordable. With an annual subscription, it's less than $10 a month. But sign up today using the link in the description and get a two-month free trial. It is because of sponsors like Skillshare that I'm able to reinvest back into my videos and do really silly things like rentout a mansion for $1,500 for the day. Yes, it was very expensive. That was the most expensive joke that I've ever had on this channel by far, but I hope it was worth it. I hope you got a little bit of joy out of that intro sequence. But most importantly, I do want to thank you guys. Thank you for watching my videos. Thank you for coming back every week and being engaged and positive in the comments. It just means the world to me to see you guys and join and getting some value from the videos I make. So thanks for watching. I'll see you next time.
