# Ground Up 037 - Unplug w/ Asher Roth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YvJUvwww3Eo
http://www.groundupshow.com

Asher Roth is a rapper by trade. He first plugged into the music industry in 2009 with his debut album Asleep in the Bread Aisle & his platinum single “I Love College”.

But this podcast episode isn’t as much about those days as it is about his decision to unplug & start over. We discuss the process of taking ownership of your content & creating music for yourself, the difference between making an album in your closet vs the big industry studios (and where his best tracks have come from). We also talk simplicity, making change on the local level, social media, & how to get started.

More from Asher here:  http://www.retrohash.com
**Keywords:** asher roth, unplug, ground up, podcast, retro hash, i love college, music, industry, film, filmmaking, recording, indie, label, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, the ground up show, minimalism, documentary, filmmaker, 
**Date:** 2017-12-13

## Transcript
 I've had to go back and do all this stuff because, you know, I kind of got taken in and swooped under and really happened really fast. And when I realized, hey, this really isn't for me, like, this is a weird world. I wanted to unplug and then I had to learn about publishing. I had to learn about mechanicals. I had to learn about, like, royalties. How people get paid. What happens if someone's playing my song on a jukebox and fairly silsementalvania? I would say, for me, the independent route is harder, but like, it's so much more rewarding. It's a lot of work, but worth it. Asher Roth is a rapper by trade. He first plugged into the music industry in 2009 with his debut album, a sleep in the bread aisle, and his platinum single, I love college. But this podcast episode isn't as much about those days as it is about his decision to unplug and start over. We discussed the process of taking ownership over your content and creating music for yourself, the difference between making an album and your closet versus the big industry studios, and which one has created his best work. We talk about simplicity, making a change at the local level, social media, and its influence over him, and how to get started. This episode of The Ground Up Show is brought to you advertisement free. If you want to support the show, it would really mean a lot to me. If you head over to iTunes and leave a quick review or rating, they really help to boost the visibility of our podcast here. And with that said, let's start the show. You're listening to The Ground Up Show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passion. My name is Matthew Evela, and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary Minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. I guess we could just start the show. We can just continue our conversation that we had. Let's do that. Um, you just move back to Philly, move back east. I missed the seasons. Oh, do you? Yeah, I do. Um, I need the seasons. This is my first winter in LA, and it's uh, I was surprised it actually does get a little bit chilly. Yeah, it's not seasons. It's not seasons. I mean, you still can throw some layers on. Yeah, layer life, which is imperative. But uh, I don't know man, I think like having that winter, I know it's a little of a drag for some people, but it's a good time to get really creative, because you don't feel like you have to go outside. And I have like one of those those bones in my body that like if it's a really nice day out, I'm like, oh, man, I got to go outside. Yeah. It's like a go for a walk or whatever, which is which is great. But uh, in LA, I just was a little bit more distracted than I wanted to be. And I just kind of have my routine. I just have my loop of my life and I felt like like my life was on the loop. And I didn't really like it. Yeah. Very Truman showy. Oh, shit. Did you just see the Andy and Jim? No, no. The, uh, it's on Netflix. Yeah, I haven't seen him. And it's pretty good. Is it like more uh, documentary style? Like behind scenes or it is a documentary and it's about him playing the role of Andy Kaufman. Yeah. And if you've seen a man on the moon, I did. Yeah. So it's just like basically he stayed in character for the entire duration of the film to Jim carries on on some shit right now, which is great. I think the stuff that he's talking about right now, it's like, you know, whatever the messenger looks like or whatever, but uh, he's got a cool little message. Yeah. Yeah. And we, we actually included a quote from him in the documentary where it was like, I think it was something about I wish that everybody could get all the money that they ever wanted so they could realize that it's not the answer for sure. Um, but uh, yeah. So actually, why don't we take a quick step back, give me a little background about what you've been doing lately. Uh, I'm Azure off. I'm a rapper, singer, songwriter. Uh, that's probably my trade. I would say, uh, dude, what I've been doing lately is more so getting back to Philly and working locally. Um, a lot of the stuff that I was doing earlier was kind of more mainstream and, uh, kind of broad stroke stuff and it was great. Uh, but I kind of found myself around like in places just really quickly. It was very, very flash, very, very fast when I look back at, uh, kind of the my first decade. So it's been pretty much by 20s. It was just like, like right when I left school, uh, college in Westchester, um, it was quick. And so I wanted to get back to a place where, uh, I was on my pace and kind of like a little bit more present. And I could recall memories. Like, oh, yeah, and then happen. So in Philly, I've been doing a lot of more local work, um, stuff that kind of finds itself in, uh, policies, not so much politics, but like, policies and just learning what it takes for, you know, urban planning and things like that. But music is still my trade and still my vehicle. Um, it's, it's my language and, uh, communications kind of more of my game. So, uh, I've been working on that, honenadden. And like you said, it did start quite a while ago. Um, I actually remember, I met you, uh, on one of my first paid gigs. It was with a company called Undercrown and they look like this is actually my first flight. I never known a flight. I was like 20 years old, uh, and they flew me out to Colorado to shoot rock the bells, uh, and there was nai's war, one of their t-shirts. So I, I filmed that from behind the scenes. I actually, uh, Tyler qually, uh, I was backstage with him and he offered me weed. And I didn't know, uh, which was, I regretted it every day since. I hear you. Yeah. It's tough drugs, right? Because like, and you're on a job too. I'm working out. But it's one of those things, like, the say yes theory. Like, if, if it's being offered to, you just go, yeah. Yeah, if you're actively seeking it out, maybe messing it up. Yeah, exactly. But I was like, uh, I wasn't an active smoker, and I feel like it would have just totally fuck me out. And then I would have been just like staring at my shoes for the rest of the day. Right. But, um, yeah, and we met in Vegas, and then you introduced yourself as a rapper. And this was actually before I left college and before your first album came out, um, and I was like, oh, cool. Like, that's, that's cool. But then like, come to realize that you were starting to build this really big reputation at the time. I'm curious about how you got to that point and, uh, when you started taking interest in hip hop and rap. Oh, I mean, just like any kid growing up in the 90s, like, rap music was everywhere. Um, and yeah, growing up in more soul Pennsylvania, I was like, you know, you couldn't escape it. So I think when I stopped playing baseball, I started to take rap a little bit more seriously as a craft. This was probably 16 at the time, uh, 15. And yeah, man, I mean, the internet is a beautiful thing. And I would just kind of put recordings on the internet and a came across, you know, first one of my sister's friends from high school. She gave him a tape. He was trying to get into the music industry. His name was Matt McGurt. We did some recordings together in Philadelphia. And, uh, you know, I was in an out of school for a little bit and then came across Scooter Braun and Scooter who does a lot of management for Justin Bieber are going to grind that stuff like that. Um, yeah, we linked up, probably when he was like 25 years old, he got a hold of some of the stuff that I was recording on my space. And very similar to your underground, crown story. It was just like my first paid gig, so to speak, he kind of flew me, well, he called me and chopped hip hop for a little bit. On similar pages, just being white kids from the burbs. And, um, he's like, hey, if you can get down to Atlanta for the hip hop awards or something, I can get you in front of some important people. So, uh, I fill myself down and, you know, he hadn't been like hanging up, holding up paintings and stuff like that. Um, he'll tell the story. What is that? Yeah, what is happening? He'll tell the story just by like, uh, you know, I just wanted to see if he was humble or not. But really, he just wanted to, like, he wanted my interior decoration skills. That looks great there. Yeah, yeah. Put it out. He probably was throwing me through a little personality test room. Yeah. And I didn't really push back too much. I was just like, yeah, do this. It's cool. And, uh, yeah, met Shaka Zulu, met your main debris. I didn't really have any crazy recordings at the time. It was just like this, um, uh, first just listen. I was just talking about equality and removing religion and race from the conversation and then what do we really talking about? And I think at the time, uh, Shaka Zulu, your main debris, some of these guys, they, they took to it. They're like, hey, this is dope. This is why I kid I wasn't expecting. Like, I'll never forget wrapping for Shaka Zulu and just like anybody, whenever you're kind of presenting yourself, you're a young kid. I think I'm like 2021 at the time. And he's just staring at his phone. You know, they get, I'm sure they get axed through all the time. You know, and he's was a differentiator self. So, and when I started wrapping that, he just kind of was like, okay, this is tight. So, then it all began. It kind of all began from there. And, uh, one thing led to the next ended up with Steve Riffkin. Um, but again, that wasn't, it wasn't really off recorded music. Like, it was just kind of off like our interactions. He had me, like, battle one of his, uh, one of his executives at the time. And it's like, it was, yeah, it was, it was a really fun, interesting process because it wasn't traditional. It wasn't like, hey, uh, here's my demo with my band. And, and, oh, you already have that single ready to go. And, you know, let's, let's, let's throw it right through the system. It was kind of like, a lot of people trusting their instincts and trusting their gut. So, I don't even think that Riffkin signed me off some, um, awesome rap, my music, music shit. I think that it was at a holiday party. They were having a holiday party at the time. And, um, they had an invited me and screw, because Steve had flown scooter down to meet with him about doing marketing for SRC. And, um, scooters like, yo, I'll do that. I'll, I'll definitely do it. If I can bring this kid with me. So, uh, I roll with them. That whole interaction happens. The rapping, the meeting of the, the label, blah, blah, blah. And then there's a holiday party. And, I guess he goes down the line and everybody has to have to sing, uh, who just got hired for the, for the, the corporation or whatever. And, they got to me. I'm just kind of eating just chilling. I was like, yeah, you have to sing. I was like, I have to sing. I'm not, I'm not an employee here. And, I got up and I sang the temptations ain't too proud to beg. And, like, the, the whole table was kind of singing. And, and I, I think that's when he turned to scooter and goes, let's do it. Oh, sure. And, and that's what I mean. My journey's always kind of been a little on orthodox. Yes, you know, it's been all over the place. So, yeah, I ended up moving myself down to Atlanta with a couple of my college buddies, Tom Boyd, Brian Langley, Shannon Higgins, and, um, and just started chipping away. I don't, yeah, I don't think there is any orthodox way to approach a rap career and rap. Yeah, I mean, you know, you hear the stuff about like, you know, coming up through ciphers or maybe coming up through a collective, you know what I mean? Or these different scenes being part of a specific scene. I mean, just hearing stories about New York City and like, the heyday of rap music or the golden age. These guys all knew each other. They're all hanging out. I just write this right time. You can't really script that kind of stuff. Yeah. And, for me, I've always kind of been like outside of that circle. And, um, but in the way, I think that's kind of helped me in regards to just do a mountain thing. Yeah. I remember, I think one of the first things that I heard of yours was the amilly remix, which was pretty big at the time for you. Yeah, I don't kind of took off. That was my like 50, 50 cent get Richard die trying. That's when I thought that people were actually listening to what I was saying. Yeah. I mean, you, you, you went in pretty hard on that. And it was, it was, uh, I think like after that, you were saying a lot of people come up to you and kind of asked a battle you. Is that right? Where people would just come up to you, like once you started to get recognized and known a little bit, people would, uh, want to challenge you in a way. I think maybe it stems for a lot from, like, there was, you were taking a stand at that point, uh, to where you, you were, you were, you're showing your values in your music and what you stand for. And I think a lot of people were like, saw that almost as a challenge, maybe? Sure. I didn't want to wrap on a milly, um, kind of, everybody had been doing it at a time. And I was driving around with my girlfriend at the time and a milly came on. And she starts, like, dancing to it. And I was like, you like this song? She's like, yeah, I love this song. And I went home and wrapped, wrapped to it that day. I was like, all right. Um, and yeah, that was just one of those things that, like, it just happened. It was just one of those, like, okay, grab this. Let's do that. I remember sitting down in the greenhouse, uh, in the booth, right in that. And it came also naturally. And, um, you can't really fight stuff like that. So when that came out, I think people were like, oh, shoot, like, actually talking about something. And I actually relate to what he's talking about. Um, and it's, it was no knock on, like, the frivolousness and, like, the opulence of, uh, of kind of, like, flashy rap music. I listen to that stuff. And I, I definitely partake sometimes. But like, uh, it just came down to kind of an overall message that I thought we were, it was getting a little out of control. Like, by things that you like and buy nice things. But let's just not throw money away. And not to like get too deep too fast. But I think that, like, um, that, um, the priorities and how we spend our money just as a nation, um, is important. That's an important conversation. But yeah, the Amelia stuff was just one of those things where people were starting to get to know who I was. Yeah. Uh, and I thought that was a really important and important part. Uh, it's obviously wasn't my song. If it was my song, like, my beat, it would have been way bigger. Yeah. Uh, it was, so for me, it was just more of taking on someone else's, um, like, guys taking on that, that beat. And I'd been doing that. That's how I got, scooters attention. That's how I got a lot of other people's attention. What's wrapping on other people's music was because the battle was already half one. They were familiar with that beat. They had heard it before. Right. So it wasn't like you're trying to get a whole new idea over and over on something. Yeah. It's not the sound as well as the, the message behind it exactly. Uh, do you, are a lot of people today? Because that was a wow. That was like, what, eight years ago or something? Yeah, 2009. Yeah, 2010, maybe it was, it was probably 2009. Is that message common in hip hop, like, in, and probably more in the underground. Obviously, mainstream. Um, I guess, I don't know. Do, are people still talking about, like, the, the clothes and the stuff. It's obviously a huge part of the culture of sneaker culture. But it's like, when I think about who is talking about that, I can only think about like that Maclemores song where he, like, he hangs himself with his sneaker laces. Are there other people that are, yeah, I forget what it's called. But like, are there, are people talking about the excessiveness of hip hop within that community? Or is it? Yeah. I mean, but it's, you know, it's nothing, it's nothing, it's nothing new. I think it's just a matter of, like, continuing to pass that idea down to kids, especially when there's not that much money to go around. Like, it was, I guess, a little bit different in like the 90s when everybody was rich, like, we all have money. Um, and things are just getting a little bit, it's a little bit different now. So, um, yeah, I mean, that conversation is probably as all this time where, like, all the kings and stuff are like, make my tombs out of gold. Yeah, right, dude. What the fuck? And especially when, uh, because a lot of people that get into hip hop, uh, come from nothing, or don't come from very much. Sure. So, once you finally get everything that you thought you wanted, you're going to go to the extremes and go to the excess. It's only natural. Yeah. I think the problem is that, like, a lot of people think that that's what's going to make them happy. And then it just kind of repeats the cycle. You got it. Where you got these people down in Fairfax, where they're, I don't know if you've seen it, but I think what's the sneakers shop down there? But three, four days out of the week. Yeah, three, four days out of the week. People are lining up around the block. Yeah. Yeah. The sneakers are the shirt or whatever it is. I mean, we coach that stuff. You know what I mean? I'll get this new, uh, get these new shoes, get this new jacket, get this new, and it's, it's a symbol of who you are, and it's a sense of connecting, and it's a sense of belonging. And it's not right or wrong, but that's how some people say, you know, I'm with you. I wear the same stuff as you do. So, um, for me, I've always kind of like, it's just exhausting to keep up with, you know what I mean? It really is like the new thing. Yeah. I mean, you see it's with technology. It's one of those things always having the new phone. It's tiring. So, I think that's a good point, though, in terms of the fact that it builds that camaraderie in that bond, because like you said, it's not all negative. Like, dude, these are some of the nicest people I've ever met. The sneaker heads and the people in the sneaker culture, it's like, you have that common bond, and back in the day, like I got into it pretty much, because I would get free sneakers, and I had a nice little collection of like 10 to 15 sneakers, which was nothing compared to the 300 to 400, some of these kids have. But it's like, it is a very welcoming community. But yeah, it's, it can be tiring. I mean, it seems like something that people eventually do grow out of. It's kind of like, it's kind of for the kids, and then like, the older kids that I know, they just kind of keep their finger on their pulse. They don't buy as much as they used to. Like, they're much more selective about what they're getting. Yeah, that makes sense. And I think that like, it's, I'm not the person to be speaking on shoe culture, because, you know, it's just not for me. Like, my shoes get destroyed. I mean, the last thing I posted on Instagram is like, my shoes, just the same color as the ground. But yeah, man, it's just a sense of figuring out who you are, and I think that there's some cool shit there. Some of these shoes are amazing. Yeah. And they really are pieces of work. But if you can't wear them and scuff them and like you're freaking out and you're like, oh my god, I don't want to get my shoes dirty. It's just like, shoes are kind of meant to be dirty. Yeah. But then there's like that whole idea of like, it's like a status symbol, right? You've got clean shoes on. You must be wealthy. Or it's kind of like, you know, like, when you're chubby and Hawaii, you're the big corner, you know what I mean? Like, yeah, there's just different ways for people to express that, you know, I'm flat. I feel great right now. Yeah, totally. In terms of the, the first album and work in towards that. So this is on a major record label. I think it was maybe split between a couple labels that you were signed to. I don't know. There's a lot, it seems complicated in terms of other things are structured. I mean, that's what I mean. That's what I had to like do on my own plugging. Yeah. I don't plug, but yeah, essentially what had happened was to continue. I'd flown down to Atlanta and met some people, let them in on my side of the story. They were like, this is pretty interesting. Scooter, what do you think? Scooter believed. And we did a joint venture with school boy records, which was, and SRC, which is Steve Riffkin. That's what like, Acon was on and that whole label. And that was distributed through universal. So universal music group was the parent company with a joint venture between a school boy and SRC. So Steve Riffkin and Scooter Braun distributed by universal. And the process of making the album was pretty smooth. I mean, it seemed to come out pretty quick in terms of when you got signed, right? So I mean, my first experience with recording records was again with this guy, Matt McGurk, and Philly. And so the thing about executives or management is that they also have an idea of what they want the album to sound like. And so it's a collaboration in ways when you're working with a major label. It's a serious collaboration. So bringing on collaborators is tough. And I think as you get older and you get more experienced, you realize that you have to be very selective about the people you collaborate with. So especially with a big project. So if I'm going to do a documentary, it's going to be two years probably. And if I'm working with people who maybe don't have the same goals, the same mission is me, then you're going to really come to a point in the road where it's going to be hard to reconcile those differences where it's so much easier making ship by yourself. Like this podcast, like nobody gives a shit, like nobody's telling me what to do. A lot of people, it's tough in the beginning because in the beginning you don't have any money. You're just getting started out. You're like, I'll work with whoever whoever wants to make you're not going with me. You're naive. You're innocent. You're green. It's a good thing. It's a beautiful kind of state of purity that I'm always racing a lot of the bad memories to get back to. Because I just continue to tell myself, it's not that serious. I do want to do professional grade content. You know what I mean? I do want to do music that sounds good and not just recording it on my iPhone and putting it out. But at the same time, we're almost able to do that now. Yeah. What's the difference between having a set up like this with a sure mic and doing it out of your closet versus in a recording studio? Well, let's put this way. When I did my major label album in big studios and we didn't get a lot of money to work with. It was like $300,000. And what's typical to give perspective? I mean, a major label debut of an artist. I mean, I love college was done. It wasn't like, oh, here's the album. Let's pick I love college. Like, I was in the basement with my boys in Atlanta of recording and that's what became the greenhouse effect. So I don't know if you're familiar with the greenhouse effect, but that was like my like coming out party of like, hey, this is fun. This is different. We have the Roth Boys video which again, wrap it on someone else's beat that makes them already familiar with the music and then they're like, what's this kids take? And then in those kind of those basement settings, I love college got made. And I didn't like the record. I thought it was cool. I mean, I remember, you know, upstairs, right in the record, that party last and I was awfully crazy. I wish we taped. I was like, oh, this is the worst song ever. Then my boy Boyd comes upstairs and he's like, no, man, you got to keep going. And he kind of, you know, he was like, I can't tell you what I learned from school, but I could tell you a story or two. And then I just like built off that. And so he kind of kept them momentum going for the song. And so he got me excited about it. And then just, you know, one of those sessions can and here's like this is a bag. Scouriers, this is a bag. Scrap you who was our engineers like, oh, man, it's a wrap. I had no idea what I was getting into. Anyway, we essentially deliver what scooter and Steve and all those guys are looking for. And then we have to make a debut album. So they allowed us some cash. And I feel like as far as the collaboration at the time and what a major label wanted and what they were looking for delivered. And it just didn't like, be by myself with Cilo was crazy to me. That was the first time Cilo was singing back lyrics that I wrote. I was like, oh my god, like this isn't saying. And it just was like, you know, the agendas and the distractions and everybody's got their own little thing going on. And so I say all that because I recorded Paps and Jazz and a broom closet, I recorded Seared for our gromm, my bathroom in New York. I recorded Roth er, you know, with knots and his home studio, like all of my best recordings come from just like hanging out in the kitchen. Literally, we recorded in the kitchen in the kitchen. Literally in the kitchen. Yeah. And that stuff is just the best way to go about it. So to each of your own, you can have your beautiful set up in your major label, set up in studios that cost X amount of dollars to be in their all the time. Or you can just kind of like do your thing every day in your atmosphere and that seems to have been working better for me. Yeah, man. Dude, like from my perspective, can't tell a difference. And I think most people can't. I mean, and I'm somebody who, I'm pretty, I know audio. I know video. Like I've got, I would say a higher taste for it. Like I could tell if something was recorded pretty shoddy. But it's like, you wonder why, why do you need to spend $300,000? Why do you need all this money to make an album? Because then you're also indebted to pay that back for sure. Well, I mean, it's tough because it does cost money to do good things. So it's like, there's some sort of you get what you pay for. So the mixing and mastering of the project is really important. Not so much the recording of it. Like the technology that we have available to us nowadays, you can pretty much just chill out, wrap on a short mic, recorded just like this. And it'll sound pretty good. So you're mixing and mastering is going to cost you a little bit of dough. And then if you want to do any visual component, and sure, like you still need a distribution budget and marketing budget if you want people to know that your album drops. And that costs money. And I don't know what that actually costs to me. It's kind of interesting because like, what does it actually buy? And so man, there's some editorial and stuff. And but who knows, you're really leaving it up to the people to buy it. I guess, unless we really do program people to be like, you're going to go buy this. Yeah, and you're going to like, which I'm sure that that does happen. But so you do need a little bit of cash, especially if you're going to compete in that marketplace. But for me, it was just like whatever. Like, how'd rather just build a, you know, kind of direct to consumer, even just a smaller audience of it will kind of know what's going to happen when I put out a record expect to maybe sell five to 10,000, 15,000 copies of a record independently by myself. Keep that money. You know, I mean, so it's like coming to me instead of like paying back on my debts first or whatever it was, because I think people in the music industry don't necessarily know what they're getting into, because a lot of them just want to make their music. You know, so it's tough. But it's also an old school thing going into the studio and shooting these 100,000, 150,500,000 million dollar videos. You know, I don't really think that we need to do that anymore. I don't think we need to go into these studios. Like, I think that you just record at home and record in your space and like set up a space and vest in yourself by some gear that you appreciate. And then when it's time to mix a record or maybe record in a live room, you just get it out take it out for the day. What, what advice would you give to somebody who's just starting out? Like, because I think it's one thing to have an established audience, because you've gotten established audience that wants to hear your music and you put out your second and third album. Those were, or your third albums coming out, but the mix tapes and the Rothers stuff. That stuff's all independent or it's on an independent record label. Yeah. But you've got, like I said, you've got an audience built in. So there's people that are waiting for it. People you can release it to. What advice would you give to somebody who's just getting started out? That doesn't have an audience. Dude, ain't nothing to it, but to do it. You just got to do it. I think people are, there's a million and one excuses you can make on like, I'm not going to do it, say I'm not really feeling it. But you got this great, the smallest things, even when I don't want to do something and I end up doing it and ends up being kind of the most rewarding. And so I'm not saying do it every day because sometimes that is the wrong thing to do. Sometimes you need to kind of reset and regroup. But do it. You don't have to get into the specifics of the finances, but I'm curious about you have this major debut album, which goes to like top five charts. It's a huge success. And then you have your independent release, which is your own project. It's not under a label. Did you make more money going independently or did you make more from that huge debut album? It's different money. Like the money in the debut stuff, it's kind of in advance. That's this is my only experience. So like I have first experience of my first like three years, we're kind of like dwindling in a mainstream and like there's a lot of money there. If you can crack that mainstream code, that's good real money. Independent money is just a little bit different. So like you gotta go get it. It doesn't necessarily come to you. But it's kind of more long term. You know, you can set up something that like you're getting paid. If you're making the right moves, you're getting paid while you're sleeping. Whereas with major labels stuff, I feel like other people are getting paid while you're sleeping. And then like they'll break you off with it. Maybe. I mean, it just tells us all this time of just like not knowing where all that money is going. Because there's a lot of different streams, especially now with music. So like all this thing stuff, I've had to go back and do all this stuff because you know, I kind of got taken in and swooped under it really happened really fast. And when I realized, hey, this really isn't for me, like this is a weird world. I wanted to unplug and then I had to learn about publishing and I had to learn about mechanicals. I had to learn about like royalties. How people get paid. What happens if someone's playing my song in a duke box and fairly sales Pennsylvania? All that stuff is really valuable. So I would say for me, the independent route is harder, but like it's so much more rewarding. You learn how it actually works. You can make your own decisions. You can make educated decisions. And it's a lot of work, but worth it. You're taking ownership over the work you're putting out there. Man, I mean, shoot. What are we doing it for? You know what I mean? It's hard, man, because you were 22 years old when everybody would have taken that decision to And it probably helped a lot. I mean, it got your name out there in the beginning. I mean, I wouldn't trade anything. It's just like, you know, for me, you also have other people in the equation. People are, they have what they want to do too. And like, you know, I'm not always the first person to be like, no, we're doing it my way. Like, I wish I was a little bit more steadfast when I was younger, but at the same time, that flexibility has put me in a decent position to still keep going. And I've also feel like I've helped a lot of people along the way. And like, if I can help other people achieve what it is that they really want to do, that's rewarding in itself, too. It's not like always about like my agenda. But, you know, there's places I want to go and things that I want to do and sometimes have to say no in order to get there. But yeah, man, I wouldn't trade it, even though like, you know, it got a little muddled and it got a little weird. I learned so much and I have a platform now, like a built-in audience that I can build on top of. And that's probably the first and hardest thing to get. It's just that initial wave of boy when it goes, hey, look over here, like that people actually look. Because we're so distracted and there's so much going on and a lot of the attention that we're competing for, so to speak, is already occupied by everybody's own life. So the fact that there are a couple of people who stop what they're doing to listen to what I have to say is like, that's a trip. And that's a power. And it's own right. So I just try to use that appropriately. Yeah, I mean, it's definitely challenging. Even starting this podcast, it's like, you put it put out the first episode and you get 50 downloads and you're like, yeah, cool, like 50 people are listening to it. That's like, it really, it feels pretty good. But at the same time, you're like, how the hell am I going to grow this to like 10,000 downloads 20,000 a month? But that's what I'm saying is like, my expectations got so skewed with life because when I first came out, like Rothboys, essentially, you know, first kind of like release into mainstream music. And people were listening. And I was like, whoa, this is crazy. But that doesn't mean, and like, you know, I'll have college out the gate probably goes like platinum out the gate because it was so so relatable. But 50 people is a lot of people. If you had 50 people here, listening to what you have to say, that's like a good a good place to start. So I don't, I don't want people to get like totally bummed out or when I call them, only 75 people or 150 people or like 2,000 people, you know, if you can sell out of venue with 250 to 500 people, that's a good sized venue. And I think people get tripped out because, well, I did anyway because my first show was selling a house of losers. And like, so when I started back going to do the independent stuff to kind of build more foundational work, I'm like, oh, man, there's only like 250, there's only 500 people here, whatever, maybe that's actually awesome. So I had just kind of messed with my expectations. And I think the views and the likes and all that jazz, it's all cool. It's a good little system to whatever, but it's messing with people's expectations and like what's actually in accomplishment? Yeah, I sometimes think that it would be best to just create what you're trying to do, post it with a blindfold and not even see what people are saying. Like, I think that is really important. But there is also, you know, nothing's that black and white, nothing's that easy, because I think there is an element to seeing and understanding what's resonating with people and what's connecting. Absolutely. That's like a push pole right there where you're like, I want to do me, I want to make the art, I want to make. At the same time, I want people to enjoy it and I want it to reach more people. So if the way in which I'm presenting this online, which people would call like branding, but the way I'm pushing this out there isn't resonating or it's not connecting, maybe I'm doing something wrong. Absolutely. Maybe I haven't done it long enough. Correct. I mean, for instance, it's like, if you want to just make it for yourself, then be totally cool when you're the only one listening to it. You know what I mean? But if you have an audience, you should consider them and take into what maybe they want to talk about and things like that. It's just, that's communication. So was there any moments early on during those early years that were just, I'm sure there was a lot, like I know you got to me, Jay-Z and a lot of really amazing people who you admired, but moments where you're pinching yourself, they're like, holy shit, am I really doing this right now? Yeah. I mean, I always go back again. I can't reiterate this enough. It was so fast, man. When I look back at like, oh, when you met Jay-Z, I'm like, yeah, that happened. It was so quick. I just remember I'm just being like tall. You know what I mean? I just remember Jay-Z being kind of larger than life. But it's still, I still felt like it was happening. I think the first moment was the first show, Me Cutty, B.O.B., and 88 keys, House of Blues, Boston. And I come out on my little escalate and it's just that whole place and because it's teared. So there's like people everywhere, and just everyone has their hand to the sky. And like, rarely does that happen in show, where are you going? Whoa. You know, that typically happens. Maybe if I smoke pot on stage, I'll like kind of my perspective will change a little bit. Like, well, this is awesome. Like, that happened in Kansas. But that first show of Boston again, it kind of takes you to your Taliban quality story. I wouldn't smoke or drink before shows because I would think that it would, like, alter me. He'd be like, yeah, and so I never really did. And I kind of was always in my space. And then Boston was just that break. There was like, yeah, like, this is happening right now. There's people here. And this is jamming. Like, this feels amazing. And I think more than anything else, little feelings like that are what kind of keep me going. Yeah, because at some times it just gets old after a while. You know, you're doing X amount of shows a year and there's work. It turns into work. It is work. It's manual labor. I don't think people understand how hard the road is. You know, I really wouldn't like shout out to the roots. Like, the roots were touring 300 out of 365 days a year, grueling. And if you look at any other, like, any acts that are touring acts, like, you better have a comfy setup, like Dave Matthews band or whatever those guys, Jimmy Buffett, like, I'm sure that they have the illist setups because they're on the road. But some of these other guys are, like, slugging it out in a van for six months, eight months out of a year, indie bands, like you better be doing it for the story. Because, like, other than that, it's like, it's hard work. It's fights. You're not eating well. There's not a vet. Like, the not a lot of available food for you on the road. And like, if you look at the entertainment industry and you look at entertainment, like entertainment as a whole, mainly with music, people don't really make it out of life. Like, everybody's kind of damaged goods, ends up on drugs. Like, ends up in, like, toxic relationships because, like, a lot gets taken from you, especially from a relationship home environment. So, you got to build it on the road. It just was, it was hard. So, I just wanted to rethink that. And I think I'm rethinking my touring strategy as well. Yeah. What's your current thoughts on it? Because touring is, it seems like it's an essential part. It's where a lot of artists make most of their money. Right. But now we have the internet. Yeah. And there's a lot of people on the internet. So, uh, I think that you can do some shows from your living room. Oh, yeah. Is it something that you're crafting right now? Yeah. I mean, you know, being able to do digital shows as an idea of been thinking about for a while. And again, doing it right and crafting the right atmosphere for it. Yeah. Stuff that people would actually tune in and tune in on. Um, but yeah, the road is that's kind of old school thought too. Like, when you hit the road, it's because you had to. I remember Nirvana talking about how they, they became a band and just because no one wanted to come up to Seattle to far away. Mm-hmm. Like, no one ever comes here. Like, we're just going to do it ourselves. And so they formed Nirvana. There's got to be so many ways in which you could as an, as an artist in a musician, bringing in income and see yourself as a business owner. And you know what I mean? Because you want to be able to make a sustainable income. You can't just break even with every project that you create. You can actually start to bring it in. So it's like, what ways can you actually make money? Like you said, you could do a live stream like that. I guess it's like an artist. You could also start a podcast or I know you have like a video web series that you did last year that you're before that. I don't know if that could make you money, but there's obviously life. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So there's ways in which you could potentially create these projects and sell it to your audience. It's like, yeah. You have to, I think from the beginning, get your audience used to actually paying for stuff and and contributing to you. I mean, everyone's trying to figure that out, right? How to make money in the entertainment business? Because if you're not like killing it, if you're not on, uh, if you're not like Kevin Hart, you know, you sometimes you just stumble your way through and sometimes you do just have to like make ends meet. But yeah, I mean, I've just tried to create throw as many darts as possible. You know what I mean? And I feel like I've landed on a couple, like with radical magical and rap life series, the lemonade. All of these little outlets that for me just kind of create my own little world. But it can people have to care people have to give a shit what you're doing. So again, I try to try to make it as formidable and sustainable as possible instead of disposable. Uh, so I, I just want to meet somewhere a little bit in the middle where it's a little bit more consistent. But again, that kind of stems into getting back ownership, understanding publishing, understanding when I put a piece of content out, where does it go? Instead of just into the black hole of the, of the internet. Yeah, it's like easier not to really figure out and understand where all these working pieces are going because it's so overwhelming at first. Yeah, and like you're talking about, I mean, even just how much work it is for you to just put this podcast together and then you put it out and 50 people listen to it. You go, is this worth it? Yeah, what the fuck am I doing here? You got to have your why. Yeah, I think really together. And it is also about experimenting and changing things up when it's not working. Because in the very beginning, I knew that I was going to put a podcast out there and only 50 people were going to listen. Yeah. And then it was like, all right, how do I grow this? How do I start to get bigger guests on the show? How can I change these teasers up to make them a little bit more compelling? Sure. But it was also like thinking about, all right, how can I get like a big guest on the show? How can then, well, we're out. I know. How does I do it? Why did you decide to come on this show? I was just kidding, but yeah, I think what happened was you reached out to me in a professional manner. Yeah. And we knew each other from underground. And underground means a lot to me because it's my family, my family shit. And that has a place in my heart right now, especially as I get older, creating that sense of home. I've always felt really fondly about Philly. And it was just a matter of like being able to get stuff done. And I had moved back to Philly in like 2011, I think. And I that's where common knowledge was shot on my rooftop at the time. But I wasn't being as productive as I liked. And that's when I moved back out to LA or move to LA. Because all my boys were here, a lot of the people like the blended babies and Chuck and a lot of Chicago kids that I was hanging out with, they were all here working. But yeah, when you hit me up and told me like, man, from the underground days, I was like, what's up dude? Yeah, let's talk about, let's talk about what is happening and what's going on. And yeah, man, because that was a big time for me, man, like I was so young and just getting started out. Like I said, the first time I met you was my first professional gig. Yeah. And that magic, too, which is crazy and Vegas because that's one of the first bit most deaf. Dude, actually, you know what's story about that? I was actually in my hotel room and I was playing like because the guy I was working with at the time, we had connected hotel rooms with most deaf. He had the main room and I had the one right next to it. And the door was open and I was playing a millie. And I had it like just jam and I was just listening to it while doing some edits because like there were some videos I shot with you that I was just cutting together real quick. I think I might have used the song in it. And then he came in and he's like, oh shit, this is dope. Who is this? Oh, this is like this guy Asharao, he's a sweet man. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was like, totally shit. That's dope. Yeah, that's just the guy to me. I mean, when everybody talks about like this this game and this world and like who's your favorite rappers and stuff and when I bring up most like, it was like, yeah, it's like, but like he's the guy. Like he, yeah, his work, his albums are amazing. He can tour all over the world wherever he wants to go. He stands up for what he believes and he's been in acting and other and plays and stuff like that. Like he, I feel like he has a good, really good relationship with himself and one of the very few artists that have done it at a really respectable level and have kept themselves. And that's flat to me, like that's those are the guys that I look at and go, you're doing, you're going the right way. And so meeting him early on and him respecting what I was talking about, that was a huge moment for me, same with like the roots cats, like black thought and all those guys like, those guys tour whenever they want, they stand up for something, they're part of the conversation and they're part of a thread that's like really productive and smart and like, and awesome. That's good. It's going to be here forever. It's like, okay, I just want to be here forever and I just want to be in that sphere as far as just like making stuff that kind of matters to me and people are resonating with it and it's not so disposable or of a time. And I thought that early work, some of that stuff, it's really amazing people go, dude, I was listening to you and like, oh wait, that was my whole college career. That's awesome. I've been able to kind of put a bookmark in someone's life and you know, just staying in that route, staying in that lane, doing it for the right reasons and those are the guys that I look at, like when people ask me so much, they're wrappers, like those are the guys to me. Yeah, it's really what I try to push on this show, which I don't think a lot of people are doing, you're talking about is trying to inspire people to make meaningful content because like everybody's got to make content. If you want to make it, you got to make content, you know, make consistent content, do it every day. But it's like nobody's talking about what kind of content you're making and it's like be really thoughtful about what you're putting out there. Look what that's turned into though from like in the news on Instagram and I'm not complaining there's butts for days on Instagram and that's great, but like a lot's are great. They're just doing it, it's just for attention, you know, so at some point like I'm getting to sensitize to the butt and like damn, that's just like, that's a great butt, another one. Another one, yeah, but yeah, dude, I mean, I don't know. It's hard to eat, it's even hard to now make it with a nice butt because then because there's like, you know, you know, just because you're pretty now, it doesn't matter because there is like what 2000 Instagram celebrities based on their butt. It's all pretty new, right? So like we're all kind of going through it together. So I mean, just for me, you know, to eat to each zone, everyone's doing their own thing. To me, it's just, I'm a little bit more of a quality over quantity guy, but in this world that we're competing in, if you're going to do it in this marketplace, you just have to be a little bit more consistent with your output. You can't just disappear for six years and then come back and expect everybody to be like, oh yeah, what a welcome back. Everyone would be like, dude, like, we've been over here for this, so it's stuff. So I don't know, man. Yeah, I mean, dude, the consistent thing is huge, especially with how, like you said, we're getting bombarded with messaging and you're competing with the buzz feeds and the click bait and all the stuff that's like, that really captures people's attention and you're trying to do it in a way that's not, that's like ethical and like represents your values and it's like, all right, how do I put you out there that I believe in? That's not being deceptive to people. Yeah, I mean, and what are we even talking about here? So it's like, yeah, you're seeing it all day. The click bait stuff and like, and lowest common denominator conversations. And I'm all for like the butt and like who's having sex with who? Like it's a fun conversation for the first five minutes. But, you know, people are into that stuff. People love drama. People love, you know, gossip. I can't, can't blame them. I think it's just human nature. Yeah, exactly. I think it's, um, it's kind of like junk food in a way, though, where it's like cool in the beginning, but then you're like, all right, well, I think I'm going to need something a little bit deeper. Well, we're all just distracting ourselves, you know what I mean? Yeah. And I'm like, I'm down to get, I'm down to go deeper into it. And I think I always have, but that turns some people off at the same time. It does. When I start talking about like real shit, you know, I mean, I can be a buzzkill sometime. I was talking about this shit right now. Yeah, I think it's having a balance though, because like I certainly love the deep conversations as well. But like, majority of the time, I'm not like trying to save the world. I'm not being an activist. It's like, and can you save the world? Yeah. Yeah. I think like, I'm kind of what happens when just a regular guy's like, hey, let's make a documentary about something. Because like, I know people, I just have these guys living on one dollar. And they actually ended up raising a million dollars for this community in Pennyblanca in Guatemala. And just an amazing story. Like, there is impact. You can make an impact. It's like, change in the world. Obviously, that's like, that's almost seems a little bit bigger, a little bit more challenging. But to me, I'm like, those guys are activists. They like are really trying to make a difference and make a change where I'm just kind of like, you know, just I speak my mind. And I tell people how I feel, but at the same time, I'm like, I guess I'm not actively trying to influence people's opinion. If that makes sense. I think you may be more than you. Yeah. Right. And you want to contribute as soon instead of just kind of take take or like, so, but finding out ways that you can actually contribute instead of just adding to the noise. And this is one way to do it. You know what I mean? And get people that get people to come talk, whether I'm one of those people or not, but like get some of those people that talk that you want to help push their message or what or their conversation forward. And those 50 people that you're starting with, who knows? Somebody might hear that and be able to connect the dot a little bit further. I mean, that's kind of how it's done. But there's just so much money out there, man. There's so much money out there that it's, it's wild to me that something like the United States can, you know, Flint, Michigan wouldn't have water right now. It was just like, what's going on? That's the only stuff that freaks me out when we start talking about money. Because it's out there. It exists. It's just like, once, when is too much, you know, when can you have, can you have too much money? Yeah. Maybe not. That's the thing. It's like, there's that push pull with being an American where it's like, you kind of set out to build something from nothing and then you make a bunch of money. And then you feel entitled to, I mean, it's your money. You made the money. You spend it however you want. I think that what I would like to get down to is the fact that it's not going to make you happy to just be self-indulgent and spend it on yourself. Yeah. There's a little bit of that obviously that's going to make you happy and you're going to have comfort. But at the end of the day, I don't think it's as much money as people think. Yeah. I mean, happiness is such a weird conversation. And then equating money to happiness obviously is like an easy connection. But I thought it was amazing when LeBron James just came out and was like, dude, setting up this public school in Ohio is my biggest accomplishment thus far. Forget all the fact that I just the most dominant basketball player ever. I just set up a public school in Ohio and like, yes, dude, absolutely. And so obviously that plays to my heart strings. But at the same time, it's like, I don't really have an agenda. I just want to be like, I want to be healthy. You know, I want to be surrounded by supporting and like loving relationships and like eat good food, drink good wine and a beer and like make chill. Not not meet too much resistance in my day and I'll be all right. And I feel like a lot of people are the same way. And so when if I'm not meeting too much resistance in my day, I have a little bit of time to think about things. And when I think about things, I always try to break it down to like it's like simplest and like original seed. And to me, it's like that early education of like those experiences that that newborn to five year old is experiencing is so important. And I just feel like everybody in the position of influence. I mean, there's a all numerous amounts of causes that you can go looking at. Like, what do we breast cancer? Like, and that's just diseases. You know what I mean? Then there's just like save the whale, save the rhino, save the elephants. It's like all of this is going on at the same time. So it's like, you know, pick one. But for me, it's just early education, getting to these kids to the point where they're just being active, stimulated. I read something recently about the low-income families. There's a three million word difference. So like the kids that are coming from low-income families and don't have access to these education are hearing three million, maybe even 30 million much less words than someone who might be coming from a better established, I guess middle class of that even exists anymore, family. And that's wild. So like being in Philadelphia and seeing it's not like ridiculous disparity. Like there's the hood there for sure. And like, it's like, you just want to be able to have those conversations and provide opportunities because you're not going to be able to like force anybody to do something they don't want to do. I don't even know, I don't know the answer to that question. You have to like, like, if any of some people might not want to get out of it. Like some people might be like, I'm comfortable. I'm safe here or whatever. It's tough man. Like I did a little bit of stuff. I did a little bit of video work with mastery charter school in Philly. If you've heard of that. But really prominent charter school, they kind of come in and take over failed public schools and then really turn around and they've done amazing work. But their biggest challenge is winning over the parents because a lot of parents don't give a shit in the hood and the inner cities, right? Which is the hardest part. It's like, how do you win over the parents and get the parents to? But it's also like, I feel like it's a trust thing too. Like when I look at like the inner cities of Philadelphia, I don't think people are mean. I'm not like scared when I walk around like that. It's not like that. It's just kind of like people. Some people are just disappointed. It just feel like, yo, what the fuck, man? Like I work my ass off and I do what I have to do and you're not holding up your end of the bargain, Philly. And like, those are the things that are kind of interesting to me now. It's like, how does that work? Like when our tax dollars or whatever, where do they go? Right? And like, who's making those decisions on Philadelphia? What gets funded and what doesn't? Like trash doesn't even get picked up in Philadelphia sometimes. That's crazy to me because like that's the first thing that I look at when I walk outside my house or my apartment. And there's just trash on the ground. That immediately affects my day and like and it's kind of like the broken window theory. Like if there's a piece of trash on the ground, I'm a little bit more comfortable throwing my trash on the ground and just accumulates. And that goes with people, all types of things. So that's one of the first things first. It's like, all right, how do we get this trash picked up? And I can do it myself and I will do it myself, but it's also like you want to get it to a point where it's sustainable. And then from there, we can, you know, we can start putting maybe some like structures in place. A lot of it's like a band in warehouses and stuff because Philly is an old industrial city. So it's a really interesting time to be there. I think Philly is kind of going through a Renaissance too. The food seems amazing. The art seems amazing. But we have like the most talented kids. Like the dance scenes, these kids who dance in Philly are incredible. The street bike scene isn't, these kids are crazy like what they're doing. Oh, with the, you mean like the, what the street bike? Oh my god, it's crazy. You see the rocky, the latest rocky one? No, no, no. Oh my god, they actually did an amazing job. I was actually really impressed with it of like showing Philly culture and just kind of incorporating what Philly's all about and like the motor bikes and riding ATVs around in the streets is pretty cool to see. It's next level. And then there's some, like we have a strong Muslim culture. We have, it's like a very strong black community, uh, white kids that go to UPEN, um, and then like a strong Hispanic culture. And like, you know, I live in kind of like a little Puerto Rico area. So I've all that and that makes me happy. You know what I mean? I don't look around and everybody looks exactly the same and dresses the same and everybody gets their clothes from the same thing. And that like that excites me. So, um, I'm not sure why I say all that, but like that's the stuff to me that we should be kind of focusing on locally. Like I'm not going to be able to go and change everything that's going on all over this country, um, but locally where I live, just in my, in these 10 blocks like this district or whatever it's called, I can go sit down and talk to them and see what the conversations are. And then at least have a little bit more education and understand how this all works because, you know, I have no idea how city planning goes down. I'm just learning about permits and like when these people are building these commercial spaces and there's building these condos or whatever that sometimes aesthetically, we're just like, yeah, what the fuck? This is completely taking away from our neighborhood. You're building these cheap structures selling them for half a million dollars a year or half a million dollars and who's even moving into those. Um, so all those conversations, I just kind of want to, I want to listen in on, observe, learn from, and then be a part of. And if I can, and in all of that, be able to make some really dope music that people are, I'm not just some kid, where people like, oh, dog, like, he's kind of killing it in that, in that field, maybe we can maybe his, uh, his opinion matters in this conversation. Then I'm, I'm pretty happy, so to speak. Yeah, I think you have to actually really put in the work to be informed. Being informed is so hard. So hard. Because first of all, there could be, there's an infinite number of things you can be informed about. And it's like, even if you were, if you were to go big and be like, I want to figure out how the United States works and how like the Congress and Senate and all the stuff ties together. That to me is, is so daunting to figure it out and really understand all like the interesting details. I like how you're approaching it from going at a local level first and figuring out how does Philadelphia work? I encourage everybody listening to this to start locally, just like, on your street gets to know your neighbors. Like stuff like that is wild and important. And like, if everybody just kind of takes care of their like five block radius, I think people would be surprised about how productive we would be. When did you start taking an interest in in these ideas? It seems like at least the actually getting your feet on the ground and kind of going in, having these conversations, it sounds like it's something new for you. Well, I mean, early on, my sister's been a part of charter schools for about a decade now. And like, so I remember she was, she was working as a principal at a Harlem school in Harlem. And I met with them and was hanging out with those kids and we did like a spoken word program. And it was really amazing. And I think that, I mean, I was in school for elementary education too. So I've always been really interested in these things. But again, it's like, how can I contribute? And it's so easy to just be like, dude, if someone else is going to do it, it doesn't matter. Someone else will do it. I feel that way about like, you know, trash. Again, like, oh, man, there's a bottle on the ground. Someone else will pick it up. Like, not. And so I just started, as much as I wanted to talk myself out of, like, I can't really make a difference. It's not going to matter. I just started to like, at least let me just go listen. And you know, having some questions that you want to ask and like, caring is, it's exhausting, man. It seems like a lot. It is like giving a shit is like, you know, it's so much easier to not give a shit. Well, and, and, and, and I find that with the minimalism and simple living and being conscious, conscious about what you consume, it's like when you, when you hop into IKEA and you're trying to furniture apartment for the first time, if you're not really being thoughtful, it's easy. You just, all right, you just start taking shit and throwing it in your cart. It doesn't cost anything. Sure. But when you're actually like, all right, do I need this? Like, you pick up each object and you're like, like, do I actually need this? Yeah. No, I probably don't need it. Um, am I actually going to use it? No, I'm not going to use it. Like, that gets really tiring to have to ask those questions and to really be aware. But it's, it's so important because if you're not, then you just bring all these things into your life, all these things that you want to change about yourself and about your community, but you can't do everything. You don't have, there's not enough time in the day to do everything you want to do. Oh, yeah. Dude, it's a team sport. I mean, like, that's what I mean. So, through all of this that we've talked about, right, through my experiences, we've actually straight away from like more of the career oriented stuff. But like, that all led to me having to do work on myself first. And once I felt like I did a comfortable amount of work on myself, that's when I can start branching out a little bit to other people and then to community. You know, I'm saying, so I think that's part of the process is like, get right with yourself, get like, you're wide together. Like, why am I doing this? Not like the what is hard, too? Like surfing is probably a great example of like, man, I would love to surf, right? And then you like get out there and you see how humbling the ocean is and like kicks your ass and like, you have to get up at 7 o'clock in the morning, maybe even like 4 o'clock 30 in the morning to catch some real waves and like go through the process of learning how to surf. You're going to find out if you really want to learn how to surf or not through that. You've got to stick with it and you've got to keep doing it. And I think that that's like the perfect example of just getting your your what and your wide together because you're going to, life's going to kick your ass and you're going to find out if you really want to do something or not. And a majority of people go, I don't want to that bad. You know what I mean? And they retreat back into kind of something. It's a little bit more safe, maybe not as fulfilling, but it's just like it's secure. Don't blame them. And I think that for some people that's awesome, but for me, man, I get a little restless and I'm a little ambitious. So I just kind of like keep going and I'm taking my lumps and like tripped up and fell and had to sit down for a while, banged my knee real hard and just been like, man, take a couple of deep breaths, but for whatever reason I just keep getting back up and like going north. So you have to take risks, right? Like you have to be willing to risk everything. If you want to do something, some people, I mean, some people don't really want to do anything and that's okay. They're just like, man, good, bro. I'm just going to sit right here. You've ever seen like, um, you've ever seen inside out the Pixar movie? Yeah, that was amazing. Do you remember the scene that I straight up cried when, uh, when Bingbong, they're on the little rocket. Yeah. And like they're trying to get up and they couldn't do it. And then like Bingbong like jumps off and she gets up. She's like, I did it. But Bingbong was gone. He was like, go for it. Like, I don't know why I brought that up. But like, but it's just like, that's, that's kind of, that's kind of what it is. You know, I mean, like, to, to do it, you're going to have to sacrifice some things and you have to let some things go. And, uh, it's, it's sad. Like, you're going to make mistakes. You're going to like, go through it. But, uh, at the end of the day, it's, to me, it's, it's kind of worth, like, we got to do something, right? It's, um, it's kind of worth it, right? Like, it's, you're, there were threats that you aren't going to be at the end of your life, say, because you failed. Because you, you tried at something and it didn't work out. It's going to be that you regret not even trying in the first place. Yeah. I mean, I'm, I'm a, I'm a firm believer of this is not over until you quit firm believer in that. I mean, Charles Bradley, bro. Like, RIP Charles Bradley, like, he didn't get to, he didn't have his like, break until he was like, 67 or something. Like, I don't know how many stories you need and just like, it only takes like one. It's just like, and when it happens, just maybe be prepared for it. But it's like, stuff happens overnight. It does. And you just want to do this stuff every day, like, be present, like, enjoy it. Because what happens when that, when that switch does flip, and suddenly your life has changed and everything you've been trying to manifest manifest itself. Like, I hope you appreciated and getting there. Yeah. And it's also, though, like, this was goes back to that Jim Carrey doc, where he was saying, uh, when he started to think about these bigger picture things and then being more spiritual and trying to figure out, like, what's actually going to make him happy, it's stemmed from getting everything he ever wanted and still being depressed and miserable and unhappy. And it's like, well, shit, maybe that's not what's actually going to make me happy. Maybe it's not the money. Maybe it's finding fulfillment in the work you do every day and being able to. A lot of times, I think you have to just keep your mind active and busy on something that's important. Like, I don't think you should be doing busy work necessarily. But if you can find that work you do every day, there's no endpoint. It's not like, you're like, all right, well, this, like, I'm done now. All right. And some days, you're, you're going to have days when you do nothing at all. And you got to be okay with that. I mean, we live in kind of a culture where if I'm the days that I'm doing nothing, like, I'm falling behind. It gives me stress and anxiety and like, that's very, it's a very competitive nature that we've been coached for. But like, at the same time, and like, I think that's helped me in regards to the whole happiness thing. And like, happiness to me is what I'm not really thinking about much. You know, I'm just kind of there. And it's been not having expectations. Like, I was kind of chilling by the water the other day. And I just, like, something that kind of occurred to me just the thought of like, like, you're so lucky to have anything at all. It'd be like, be so thankful and like, accepting of your gift. Because there's so many things that like, we complain about. That is what the fuck ever, man. But we're so lucky to have anything at all. So that really stuck with me as I was moving forward. And just the thought of like, expectations and expecting something in a day. And like, when I wake up and I'm just kind of like, whatever is going to happen is going to happen today. It's helped. It's helped a lot. Instead of expecting or waiting for something to happen and never coming and having those feelings of disappointment. A lot of that stuff saw created ourselves. Like, and a lot of our, a lot of our problems are probably, I would say, man, man, so to speak. But yeah, man, not having expectations has been huge for me. I think it's patience, too. Like, I was just starting this podcast and starting to get some momentum and you'll have these spikes where you have an episode that does really well. And then it'll kind of come down a little bit and just feeling like, obviously, I can't, I'm not making a living doing a podcast right now. Like, it would be nice if I could eventually do that. And then, but then you're like, I was just realizing I was being very anxious. And I was like, I need to make it all happen right now and do everything right now. And it really thing, the thing that cleared my mind was actually, there's this place called, uh, it's like a Russian bath house here where have you ever done that? Where you like, there's sauna and then you jump in the cold lunch? Dude, if that doesn't reset your brains and rewire your thinking, you just, you jump right out of it. All that anxious energy I had, all that impatience and me wanting to do everything today everything right now. I just like, chill and I was like, oh shit. Okay, cool. Like, I think they do this right now. I think exercise is important, too. But, yeah, you know, to patience, I think Latin means to suffer. Um, shit. You know what I mean? Like, and it's real. It's, I think patience is really important. But it is, in a way, an act of, of suffering. Um, and I, man, part of my like morning ritual when I kind of stretch out and, you know, say, thanks and all that jazz is a, I asked for clarity and I asked for patience. Um, because again, man, my early 20s, like, my expectations got so skewed when I was just like, I want things. Daddy, I want a golden goose and I want it now. And it's just like, yeah, yeah, sure. But, um, yeah, brick by brick, man. Yeah, by brick. Yeah. And enjoy the process. And, and trust the process, baby. Yeah, trust the process. So it's all about. Yeah. Um, so you're like a, you're a business owner. Now, I mean, you've got an LLC, when it's like a retro hatch thing all come about. Uh, you know, just when I, when I released my first kind of independent record, like again, I was unplugging for so long like, no, no, like, blah, blah, blah. And then retro hatch was kind of my first independent release. And it was funny, because it got like build is like my sophomore album and all this jazz. It really wasn't at all. It was just like me hanging out with the blended babies down the street from here actually, a bunch of recordings and we'd finally gotten to a space of like, let's put this out. And people hadn't heard from me from a studio album so to speak and quite some time, even though I had been releasing music, you know, pretty much every year. Um, and yeah, retro hatch comes out. And it was me building off using my voice, understanding my voice, understanding my artistry, so to speak, and just having some fun, taking some risks. You saw them out. And Tangerine Girl was cool. It was a nice record. And I've been able to build off that now, um, as far as the new music that we're doing builds off of like, becoming familiar with my voice and who I am. I think when you're young, um, and creating, you're kind of emulating a lot of the stuff that you hear and you see. And so that's why when I'm creating, I try my best not to listen to too much stuff and just have what's coming on, what's going on through me. Uh, so whenever I'm, you know, kind of creation mode, everyone, like, ask me also, what do you listen to right now? It's like, not really listening anything. But, uh, it's, it's hard to, I find that trouble, I, or not, troubling, but I find that difficult is the consuming content. It's like, I, because I want to be like, there's a lot of great podcast that I want to listen to when I want to learn from. But at the same time, I'm like, shit, if I'm producing, uh, you know, one podcast every week, and I'm doing all these teasers and extra shorts, and I'm also making featured documentaries in between. I'm like, there's not much time. Yeah, I mean, and like you said, it does influence your decision, making a little bit. Man, I really, uh, I commend you, bro, because I would love to, you know, have these conversations with people, um, and have these insights and chop it up, film it, edit it, and it's just a lot of work. Yeah, do it by yourself. So like, um, I commend you for being able to do it. Thanks, man. That's also my, like, it's my, my, basically what I thought about going into this podcast and doing the video stuff is like, man, I've spent my entire life, uh, uplifting other companies and lifting other people up and, and making content for companies and startups and all this, and which has been great, because I, I got, I paid off my student loans. I, I was able to do a lot of great things with it, but then I was like, man, how can I use my skills and my talents to prop myself up, and let myself up? That's why I started retrohash. And retrohash is just an anagram for my name. Yeah, after off mixed up. Uh, I knew that. Yeah. And so yeah, man, I mean, we just want to do things that, uh, you know, we believe in and support community. I moved back to Philadelphia. That's why I want the hub to be. I think there's a lot of amazing things just to start and talk about in Philly. And then if we can grow it to be something, uh, that's a little bit more regionalized and then nation, like, you know, a natural growth. But, uh, I've read it, uh, I'll never forget reading a like this book called Your Fuck, or whatever. It's about the music industry. That's called Your Fuck. And, um, yeah, it's just talks about doing stuff locally. And then, you know, if you're from Philly or if you're from New York or you're from New Jersey, don't try to like tour in Texas. You know, I mean, get your, get your little thing going on regionally. Uh, it's interesting now because having the internet provides us opportunities to be almost everywhere at once. But I still recommend doing things very locally, uh, whether it be your art or whether it be something that your, whether it's food or something start, start locally and then start to branch out. It's funny that that's one of the reasons why I do all the podcasts in person. It's also think about like, all right, how can I make this more personal? How can I actually connect with people? Because so many people do the podcasts where they just call somebody up and they they can do 10 in a day and just schedule all these interviews back to back. But I'm like, how can you be present and how can you actually, um, do it a little bit differently? And a lot of ways that's how you got started out. You were saying it wasn't just from making this music and putting it out there. It was from meeting these people in person and whether it's like, you know, spitting in front of them or just having a conversation with somebody that opens the door in ways that you wouldn't imagine. Yeah, I mean, that's, that's it. Like, uh, who was just talking about this? Like, oh, Jay-Z on his conversation in the New York Times. Um, I was like, well, you get rich and famous. If you didn't have any people around, like, what's the point? You're just alone in rich and famous. And so I agree with them. I mean, it's a little bit easier to say that when you're rich and famous, you know? Sure. But uh, but yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. But it's good to hear that from someone like Jay-Z. He's a mogul. I mean, he's beat every level in the game. And so like, when you hear that, that's it's pretty reassuring, especially for someone like myself who's chosen people and community and my relationships as my biggest asset over a personal wealth and what a lot of people would define a success. And so, but yeah, curating that and, and I think you can do that. I think you can like, if you know what you want to do and you know your why, like why you want to do it, you can absolutely curate your life. It just takes a little bit of time. And it's definitely a day by day thing. But like doing small things every day is like, it works. Instead of just like one big fell swoop, where just somebody else might come in and, you know, hire you and change your life or whatever. But you do small things every day. I mean, it probably equates really well to fitness. You know, people who are, I think that's a really cool world as far as like discipline and seeing results. The people in that fitness world with their diet and their exercise, they start to curate their, their body. And I think that the same thing applies to like your life and your settings and, you know, specific home, you can do it. You can absolutely do it. What was your your idea of success when you first got started out and how has that changed to now? I don't know if I had one. You know, even, but even in Atlanta, dude, I never was like, our mouth, like piece of, later suckers. Like I took my boys with me. Like me, boy, brain, and Shannon down in Atlanta, just being reckless. And then we all went on tour together. And like, so my, my success has always lied in like kind of a group setting. Where is like everyone else is, is everyone else enjoying themselves? Okay, and then I am, too. And that's been a fault of mine. I mean, I like that whole making other people happy, attribute doesn't always work. Sometimes you end up taking the L. But yeah, I think still my definition of success, it lies in kind of like a fruitful community where like I like the idea of like going and mailing some mixed tapes out to some fans and like knowing the people who work at the post office. And then like going to get some bread from the bakery and being like, what's up, fill the baker? What's up? I like that to me. It's a life. You know what I mean? You're doing so you're not just up here all day. You're kind of like, you're kind of in your body and your present. And I like living life that way. I don't want to be too cerebral about it. I don't want to be too scapeous to about it. So I just kind of try to, you know, make, make some, make my settings and my setting settings, like a beautiful place of where I want to be. Do you do certain things or have certain rules for yourself in terms of like say technology or your phone? We're like it seems like you're like try to be personal and be in the moment. But then I actually do a little thing on my iPhone where I put in like, I delete like Facebook and all the like email. I don't have it on my phone. And sometimes I bring it back if I'm like traveling and I need it. But I'll like put in Instagram and Twitter, which I need for my business. And then I put it in a folder and then I hide it all the way, like four screens to the right. So then it's a little bit harder for me to get to. Do you do anything like that? Or how do you approach them? Yeah. I mean, I deleted Instagram off my phone and I posted and then I read down on it. Yeah, I was going to say how do you, because you can only do it from your phone, I think. Yeah. And so I think it's a struggle for a lot of people. I think awareness, first and foremost, like you got into like damn, I'm spending a lot of time on my phone. And I think that there's just moments when I catch myself and I'll just be like, I'm learning and doing absolutely nothing. Sometimes that's cool and shit. But like, I'll start to feel it. So yeah, I mean discipline. And I think that cats like you and I and a lot of people around that use them as tools. They're important. But there's definitely a high percentage of myself that's just like, I want nothing to do with this. But like Facebook helps me keep in in contact with the European fans and like fans all over the globe and social media does too. That's wildly valuable. So just a little bit of discipline. I think that sometimes experiments are fun. So like not fun, but like I'll leave my phone at home and go to the grocery store. And then you notice when you're like in line and you just go for your phone. You're like, oh shit. Because like any moment that you would have a spare pause that you would essentially just go for your phone. Totally. What's happening? And like, what are we even getting from it, you know? Yeah. Like that's the thing where I'm like, I kind of want to get to a point. I'm not that good at it. I mean, and I think certainly life's all about trying to find a balance and not actually achieving it the trying. And you know, you have to look at your Instagram and post stuff and sometimes it's nice to engage. I mean, like for me, it's not that hard because I don't have a big audience. But how do you find with the engagement, too? And like trying to, yeah, you can't talk to you can't respond to every comment. Yeah. I mean, also like you open up that floodgate. It's just like, you know, suddenly you're on your phone all the time. Like if you respond to everybody, you know, but for me, it's like, you know, I don't know, you're using it appropriately. I got rid of my phone. I was on a flip phone for two months, just recently. And the only thing I really missed was having access to email on the run. Because that was the stuff when like, that was the important stuff. Like that was coming through. I think the interactions with fans, they appreciate it and makes their day. And I think engagement is really important. But, you know, it's way cooler to meet somebody in person and really know what's going on. It's very analog. So it's like, I don't know, I didn't really miss social media. But this is, this is a, this is a tool, you know, and it's a convenience. And it's a luxury. We don't need it. I found myself like waking up and having my own thoughts when I didn't have my phone, whereas I would wake up and kind of be like Tam that dream, whatever dream I just had. And then I would kind of like scroll through some social media. And I would be inundated with like other people's thoughts. Good or bad, however you want to look at it. But I enjoyed kind of being with myself in the mornings. And in the evening instead of by distracting myself with other people's shit. Yeah, I have been lately. Like sometimes I do the no phones in the bedroom. I'll just leave it out. But lately it's just been like roll over, pick up the phone. The first thing you see in the day is like your Instagram feed or whatever is the app that you open. It's new, right? I mean, we've, we're the guinea pigs. Like we've had this now for 10 years. And the adaptation, it's, it's been fairly slow. But like, you know, I can definitely see singularity like being a thing. And so yeah, I don't, I'm not really super down with the digital like going into that space because it feels infinite to me. And so like I'm down to dabble a little bit and I like thinking about futurism and I like the idea of like space mining and like all that. But at the same time, I've been more attracted to like more earth based and like, you know, taking like deep breaths and being present and actually being in my body, then like being out there. So I don't think that I'd go for like the chip and you know, I don't think I'd go to biodegrad. I think I'm pretty cool with like, I think I'm old enough to be like, yeah, man, I'm down with like the being a human and even though it sucks and like it's hard and like, you know, we're on this like quest for fulfillment or whatever we're on. At the same time, it's so amazing to like go and chill out by the water or go like go for a hike or and like feel it feel alive. And so yeah, I'm probably going to chill on earth. I'm going to stay on earth. I don't, I don't care about Mars. Mars doesn't really interest me. Even though it's cool, man, if you could like go to Mars tap into like the nitrogen or whatever they say is there build this atmosphere and like recreate earth, holy shit, like next level. But I mean, we've got, you know, earth's pretty rad. There's some pretty amazing stuff going on right here. So I want to continue explore that and I think there's a lot of untapped potential and like the spirit and the soul and so I'm working with that right now and it's been pretty cool. Cool, man. You want to get the quick questions? Sure. This guy up. You read much? I read a little bit. Has there been one book that's had the biggest impact on your life? Well, the thing is I read a lot of the stuff that I'm reading is more like fiction based and like, like Hurricane or a Kami, like, oh, I actually read his memoir. That's what I think about, or what I dream about when I think about running or something like that. I'm not sure. Yeah. I was like wind up bird chronicles and like Kafka on the shore. And he's just like a surrealist and like he a little like, you know, he's sexual and like perverted in a way, but he paints these cool pictures and that's kind of the most, that's kind of the important thing for reading for me is you conjure up the image yourself instead of like letting the television do it for you. So that's why I like reading and that's why I typically like to read a little bit more fiction and stuff that's not necessarily real. But there's always that sense of like learning something while you're reading too. So like guns, germs and steel and like reading like like a little bit more text book based stuff of just like learn history and facts. Right now I'm reading invisible man by Ralph Ellison. It's nice to also take yourself out of the like achievement mode where it's like you're always like trying to do the next thing and and you know achieve the next level when you're like, you know play a sport or do something outside of what it is that you're setting up as a career. Yeah, I mean books are really intimidating too. They can be like big and long and there's a lot of words. So again, you got to want to kind of want to have to read it or enjoy reading. I'm not really good at like the PDF stuff. So like you can take you can crush information on this. But a lot of like the text based stuff that I'm reading on the phone is a lot of its junk or like news. So when I'm reading a book and I'm turning a page and I have a book in my hand, I feel like I'm actually reading or learning or like going through an exercise. Yeah, it's more focused. You're not as distracted by totally looking at a device because I do it. If I read on my iPad, I would just within 10 minutes, I probably be on an app or something. For me, for me, for reading and I encourage people to read more. I encourage people to go to their public libraries. I think that's a great place to be. And just like if you're interested in something, even read just half the book. You don't even have to read the whole thing just like start to get new ideas and I think we get comfortable when we keep like eating up the same thoughts over and over again. So I don't know. I encourage reading. That's a good question. What uh, where do you go when you're feeling doubt? Hopefully hopefully to hang with some like butt cheeks. Yeah, I mean, when I, I don't know, I doubt myself all the time. You know, sometimes I feel pretty good, but I doubt myself, you know, I actually was going through my old tweets, just like some drafts. And there's something that I had written. That was like, I get sad. I get lonely and I doubt myself all the time, but I'm not depressed. It's going to be very careful when you're self-diagnosing mental illness because I think that's been a topic for a lot of people. And kids, I think more so teenagers are kind of like, um, depressed, you know, I mean, but really you're just like sad and lonely and growing up. Uh, so yeah, doubt in, in our line of work is like all day, every day. So it's just something I just eat, you know, I'll just eat doubt, try to get it out as fast as possible. What's the simplest advice? That's the most important to follow. Uh, do it. Ain't nothing to of what to do it, man. And brick by brick. Those have been my mantra's just get up, do it. It's going to be hard. You're going to have some setbacks. Um, and then just like keep going. Um, let's see here. What drives you? I have no idea. I have no idea. It's just, uh, something in there. Um, maybe my gem and I moon, you know, I mean my gem and I moon has me pretty restless, um, discovery, exploration, um, you know, experiences. Those are the things that I, I'm kind of, I guess, I'm kind of addicted to in regards to just like doing something. If I'm just kind of doing the same thing over and over again, feeling stagnant, it's just, it kind of, that's when I start to feel bummed out. So, um, just getting out and amongst it, uh, is something that that drives me. But you know, at the same time, I get tired and exhausted and I really just want to sleep in my bed. And, uh, so, you know, a really nice shower and like nine hours of sleep sometimes drives me, you know. Uh, so I've got this, uh, this was like a fun one. I've got this big, crazy goal to get doing the rock Johnson. Oh, my podcast. Hell yeah. You, uh, are you in a wrestling when you're growing up? Oh, yeah, a big wrestling fan. Um, I've always been a big rock fan. And like this is like to me. It's like, all right, what's, if I could think of one person, I want to tell their ground up story about how they started from nothing, you were talking about like fitness and how inspiring it is. These people that just kind of crush it every day, rock is one of those person. And like dude, he like, he made it like he unlocked every level and he just puts his head down and he continues to do the work. Um, he's fucking incredible legend. What advice would you give me to get the rock on my show? So, to give you some background, I've been doing this for the past year. I've been trying to get him on and talking with guests about it. Um, I just launched a website, uh, about a week or two ago called get the rock on my podcast.com. So, maybe go for Tyrease first. Oh, shit. Get Tyrease. Yeah. Talk to Tyrease and then get the rock for a rebuttal. Oh, shit. Because he doesn't, you got to get his like, I wouldn't say arch enemy, but you know, you got to get the others, the shadow side of it. Yeah. So, no, that might be like some shade though. He might not like that. Well, you know, you just got to take a neutral approach. You just want to hear what's going on. Yeah. I'm just trying to face this thing out. But man, the rock's going to be tough because he's done it all, man. He gets like 20, 30,000 messages a day. It's like, yeah. So, I set up this, this button on the website where like you click it and it automatically creates a new tweet at the rock. One of them's actually, uh, he doesn't like Tyrease's music either. And then it, uh, it has like the rock at. Yeah. So, I just launched a couple of weeks ago, a couple hundred people have tweeted at him, but that's not going to make it. No, it's like crazy man though. But like, just think about his story. Like, my man was like, well, a linebacker for the Miami hurricanes. Even probably before that, his come up was probably even crazier. Yeah, I've already got his book. It's kind of the rock says. So, I like the very legit path. Oh, no, it's incredible. Uh, he, he legit had seven dollars to his name when he, he went out and uh, he actually did professional football in Canada for like half a year. It just wasn't working out. He was going to pay nothing. He talks about the story of pulling out, uh, like a piss soaked mattress from the back of some shop and about him and his, uh, other player co-pliers. They, uh, they kind of set up shop paying a couple hundred dollars a month and rent and there's really like dingy place. Yeah. It's like man, that's a redecafer. And then after that, he's like, I'm going to be a professional wrestler. And like his dad's actually was like a well known wrestler at the time, helped to train. He's actually three generations of wrestlers in the family. His, yeah, his grandfather, his father, and then he became a wrestler. And so it's like his dad coached him and just like really started from nothing. He had nothing at the time. Um, and it's just amazing to see that story. So it's going to be tough. I mean, I don't like it. It's the expectations. I don't have expectations that it's going to happen. Hey, Dwayne. If you're listening, man. Yeah. We need you to come through and just spread a little love around here. We need to hear, we need to hear your words first hand. Uh, so if you get some time, come visit Matt here at the ground up podcast and we love to hear from you, man, as, as, as everyone would. That's great. I think that's going to help. Hey, we'll see. I'll send it to him. I'll have it. That'll be done. He's probably a hip-hop fan. He's probably a rap fan. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You might listen to your music when working out. Who knows? I don't really make like super workout music, but like it's possible grind. I think if he all right, I was going to mention that to grind was like my anthem. Probably the past eight years. Dude, that was a moment for me. But like also that is what got me away from major label music. I remember like dude, and in short, like having a sleep in the bread out, doing that jazz, and then like kind of things getting a little weird. And I was like, all right, cool. I'm going to do this record grind. And like everyone was like, rich Isaacson was the only dude that was like, hell, yeah, this is banging. Everyone else was like, I don't know about this. But he got the video shot. And then when I just saw what it was about executing your own ideas and how much you needed other people in order for it to go through the system. That's something man. I got to venture out of my own. But grind was such an important record as far as like freedom and independence and like standing up for what you believed in. Dude, at the end of the song, you you set these lines that like just like it's like, you get the chills. You're like, oh shit. Yeah. Yeah. It got resonates happen. This isn't getting what you want on that time. It's about loving what you have. Yeah. Hard to do. It's a practice. It's a discipline. It's not just you're not just going to have one of these things. You're like, hey, I'm in. Like you have to, you know, you're going to have these thoughts of doubt and you're going to be dreading stuff and you just have to check yourself. And if you can do that, the checking starts to become like shorter and quicker and quicker and quicker and then eventually you're just like, me, I'm in there. All right, cool. So two more questions before we wrap this thing up. One thing people should read, listen to or watch before they go to bed. Before you go to bed, I mean, it might put you to sleep, but there's a cool documentary called Hypernormalization by Adam Curtis, BBC. It's dense. It's like two and a half hours and it's like, it's mad woke. So it's like, what are those things that you'll probably get? I remember like I was saying, you know, my friend Liz and like the first eight minutes she was asleep. She's like, I'm out of here. No way. I'm not doing this. And you know, it's it's deep, but I think if you have some time and you're kind of on some stone or shit and kind of into like information, there's a lot of information there. I feel like it's fairly unbiased. So I would say Hypernormalization documentary on YouTube, coolman. And last question, how should people connect with you online? Best way to do it really is Twitter or retrohashed.com has everything, uh, varying a monochromatic setup. That's like just like pink music. So that's like where all my music is. So if you just want to hear and see what we've been doing, retrohashed.com and you can always give me a shout at contact at retrohashed.com, which that's how you got to hold me. Instagram. I don't really love Instagram. It's very, it's kind of like every man for themselves. So like I check it every now and then, uh, but Twitter, I think is cool. It's kind of like a forum talk forum, micro blog and not huge into like 280 characters, but is what it is. So at Asharaath, ASHER, ROTH, Twitter, and then Facebook. So I'm available. I'm around. It's just like, you know, when you ask like, how do you get Duane Johnson or anybody's? How do you get anybody's attention? It's just timing and I guess persistence, but even people who hit me up consistently. Sometimes that's a turn off. So it's like, you know, you got to know your audience. Yeah. But one kid on Instagram, he slid into our DMs, mad times, probably since like 2014, just asking a clarification on a lyric. And I kind of just like, whatever about it. Because we, there's some like, you know, idiot kids that just like, do you still have college dude? Like, you know, I mean, that stuff's noise, but that kid was asking if in bad day, I had said high loss to my cat or how I lost my cock. And he's like, please, man, this is ending like a year long debate. And I finally responded to him and told him that as I had lost my cat. And he was so geek. He was excited about it. So maybe persistence is the key. That's great, man. Thanks so much for doing this to cheers. I hope you guys enjoyed this episode of The Ground Up Show with Asharaath, it was really a great chance to sit down with him to talk about what he's been up to lately. I've been a big fan of his work ever since he got to start it out. So it was really cool to to be able to chat shop. One thing I want all you guys to do, we talked about it on the podcast episode. But go check out and listen to Grind by Asharaath. It's stands for Get Ready. It's a new day. But if you search Grind Asharaath on Spotify or YouTube, it'll pop up. Amazing song, super inspiring. And I think it really just shows his message and what he's all about. If you haven't heard of some of his recent stuff, that's a great place to start. He's got like three or four albums as well in Spotify that you can check out. And as always, if you can review and rate this show, that is a huge help. We're not doing advertisements right now. So anything you can do to help promote and boost this show is greatly appreciated. Those ratings helped to increase that visibility. So again, really appreciate your guys support. To the new listeners and the old listeners, it's been great to grow in this journey with you. And that's it. We'll see you next Wednesday.
