# 4 Rules to Help Increase Your Productivity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yXohcxCKqvo
Go to https://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code MATTDAVELLA. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this vid!

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2021-05-31

## Transcript
 Apart from all the digital tools and systems we use, if you're looking to improve your productivity, what you actually need is to better understand human behavior, the ways we trick ourselves into feeling productive, and the common traps we fall into over and over again. So I want to share four rules for productivity that have really helped to reshape how I work every week, how I plan for both big projects and small ones, and how I make sure that I'm not just feeling productive, but I actually am productive. Let's get into it. This video is brought to you by Squarespace. I'll share more about them later in this video. Alright, so rule number one. Plan for things to take way longer than you think. The biggest myth that's perpetuated about productivity is that you can get to a place where work always feels effortless. And once you unlock that secret, you'll never procrastinate again. You'll have an infinite source of motivation and you'll never fall into a slump. But that's not the case. The truth about productivity is that it ebs and flows. There are going to be those weeks where we feel like we're really on top of everything. We might even get ahead for the first time in a while. And then there are going to be those weeks, maybe even months where we fall behind, where we feel like we can't keep up with the amount of things that we had set out to do. And this really happens for two main reasons. One, there are so many unexpected things that will come up. Our lives are filled with the unplanable. We get sick, our kids get sick. We get sick of working, so we pretend like we're sick. There are so many things that we can't plan for. And therefore, when those things pop up, we inevitably fall behind in our schedule. And the second thing I'd say is that, just overall, we're really bad at planning how long something is going to take us to do. And when it comes to my own videos, I've been a filmmaker for over 10 years, that made hundreds, thousands of videos. But I still couldn't give you a really accurate estimate to how long my next video will take to make. There are so many details, questions, and problems that will come up within that that we can't foresee when we first get started. And so regardless of the fact that I've done it before, that I've made tons of videos in my life, I still have a really difficult time planning ahead and meeting all the little deadlines that I set for myself. I think the biggest problem with this is that we are left feeling unproductive when it's actually completely natural to have weeks or months where we're not getting as much done as we have planned to or set out to. And I think the best way to really work around this is to plan buffer into every project we make, plan for the unplannable. A good role of thumb is to double the amount of time you think it's going to take you to do a particular project. If you're somebody who actually works with clients, this is so important to manage the expectations of the people that you're working with. Even if you want to give a deadline for your boss, double the amount of time you think it's going to take. It's so much better to get it done quicker in a shorter amount of time than to need to push back the deadline once twice three times. And of course it's okay to push back those deadlines even if we fail to estimate it, especially for those bigger projects. But when I plan in buffer, when I plan for those unplannable things, I find that it's much better on my mental health. I feel so much better about the things that I do get done. And I'm not always continually letting myself down. Rule number two, process similar tasks at the same time. Rapid tasks switching is one of the all-time best ways to feel productive without actually peeing productive. We convince ourselves that we can multi task. We can do a lot at the same time and switch back and forth between these tasks. We can check email while we're watching TV. We can listen to a podcast while we have a deep and meaningful conversation with our partner. We've got to love this podcast. Excuse me? God, I love how you talk fast. Okay, so anyways. Um, when I'm talking about the moral, cake and erection things are still not very good. But this approach to work only splinters are attention and affects how much we can actually get done and how much focus we can have on any individual project. Instead, when we focus on one task at a time and then batch all those tasks together at the same time each week, we can fly through them with much more ease. You might even choose to bucket your weekly tasks into categories like communication, creation, and maintenance. Communication would be things like phone calls, video chats, and presentations. Creation would include things like writing, painting, and photography. And maintenance would include things like emails, taxes, chores, and polishing your frame photo of the rock. The hidden power behind this approach to scheduling our days is the fact that different tasks require different types of energy. And so a phone call is very different from writing an email. And so if I choose to schedule a say five phone calls on Monday morning back to back to back, then I can get warmed up. So that first phone call I might feel a little bit tongue tied. I might not be really great at communicating my ideas. But at the time I get to that fifth phone call, I'm warmed up. I'm feeling as if my brain is processing. My thoughts much better, which is a surprisingly difficult task for me. And I just feel better about all of those phone calls. Maybe not the first one. Maybe that first one was just a warm up. And I think this obviously goes for everything else. So writing emails, responding to people, writing into that mindset where you're writing, getting into this mindset where you're editing a video or doing photography something creative, making sure that you're conserving your energy and you're really using it in the right way at the right time. Rule number three, increase uninterrupted work hours. We've got meetings, meetings to plan meetings, open office, floor plans, constant interruptions, water cooler conversations. Is that a thing? Do people still do water cooler chats? I don't, that seems like something from the 80s. I've never had a job if you can't tell, but regardless whether you're working from an office or working from home, I'd say actually especially if you're working from home and have roommates, a wife, a partner, there are going to be so many interruptions none greater than the people around you. What to do it? Oh my god, this is crazy. Yeah, so I tried the whole organic thing, but what I found out was that my vagina just doesn't take well and talk out of town once. So, what's red tube? Oh my god. No, this is actually crazy. Is this annoying? Yes. Okay, I'm going to be fair here. It's definitely not Natalie. That's the only person that does this. That's funny. What's funny? So ever since we moved into this apartment in early January, Nat and I have been working together in this room right here, like literally like Nat would sit on the floor in the corner. I don't know why she chose to work on the floor. I guess she was just more comfortable that way. I'd be here at this desk. This is like everything. That's the kitchen, the living room. There's a bedroom down the hall there, but that's literally it. It's a tiny apartment to live and to work from with two people. And so we found ourselves constantly talking about work, constantly interrupting each other, never finding a time to switch off. And that was actually like a really big detriment to our own productivity because we never got a chance to rest. And so us working together from this space together, affected our productivity, affected our relationship in a negative way. And it wasn't until Nat only decided to get a coworking space just a couple weeks ago that we realized what a big problem it was. Because all of a sudden we felt so much more free. We felt so much more productive. There's a huge difference between work hours and uninterrupted work hours. You need to make as much time in your week for deep work as you can. You might choose to proactively block out this time on your calendar each week, especially if other people have access to your availability. I've got one more rule to get to before I wrap this video up. But before I do, this video is brought to you by Squarespace. Squarespace has been a partner on this channel all year. And I've chosen to include them as a sponsor because I truly get value from their platform and I have been using them for years. Why do I use Squarespace? Good question. Their website builder is super intuitive and easy to use. You can select from a range of beautiful templates, plug in your message and publish your site in no time. You can easily add whatever call to action you need. For me, that's my social media accounts and my email sign-up form. And you can buy your domains and set up your G Suite email accounts directly in Squarespace. You don't need to stress out about all the technical back-end stuff of building a website and setting up your email servers. You can get right to work and start pushing your ideas out into the world. Go to Squarespace.com for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com slash MACD EVELA to save 10% of your first purchase of a website or domain. From websites and online stores to marketing tools and analytics, Squarespace is the all-in-one platform to build a beautiful online presence and run your business. And finally, rule number four, don't put off your most difficult tasks. Being productive for the long run is very different from being productive for just a one week sprint. When you're trying to be productive week after week, it really requires you to conserve your energy. This is so important. And so, when I talk about not putting off your most difficult tasks, I'm not talking about the difficult things from a technical perspective or a problem that needs to be solved. I'm usually talking about those things that are weighing on your shoulders. Those are the burdens that you carry around that can help but intrude every other project and every other thought you have. And when it comes down to it, the things that we constantly put off week after week, the most common culprit are difficult conversations. There are many instances early on in my career as a filmmaker where I put off difficult conversations with clients or collaborators, because I was worried about what those conversations might lead to. Will I lose the client? Will I let someone down? Will I embarrass myself? But what happens when you put off these difficult tasks, these uncomfortable conversations? It builds up. It continues to build up the longer that you don't resolve it. And it really affects your creativity, what you can bring to each project. If you find yourself in this situation where you're constantly putting things off because you're afraid of that confrontation, ask yourself what would happen if you tackled that problem first. If you did that immediately, if you put it to the top of your two-do list, especially if it's something that can be resolved in 30 minutes or less. So you have a 30-minute conversation, it will be unpleasant, it might be a little bit awkward, but then after that 30 minutes, it lightens up the rest of your week. Suddenly you're able to release the pressure valve and free up your creativity to truly find that focus that you need to be more productive. And so you clicked on this video, hoping to feel productive. And I hope that that worked. But I also hope that you got a little bit more of a deeper perspective of what it means to be productive and the common traps that we've fallen to on a regular basis. Now, like I said earlier in this video, I'm no productivity guru. I don't have it all figured out. And I don't think anybody really does. I think people that say that they've got to figure it out, they've got the perfect productivity system and they never slack off. If they say that, then they're absolutely lying. I don't believe them. There are going to be weeks in the months where you don't feel productive when you're not getting much done. And I think that you need to just pay attention to how you're feeling. Plan for some moments of stillness to be able to reflect and determine whether right now you just need to slow down and you need to give yourself a freaking break. Or you actually need to kick up the ass because you're procrastinating and you've been doing it for months and you need to actually get to work. And so you need to figure out where you are. I can't tell you where you are right now. But I do hope that this video helped you gain some perspective and learn some ways to make your days more productive. I'll see you guys next time. Bye.
