# I have something really big to announce.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z2DAfhsg0I8
I made a course platform!!! 👉 http://slowgrowth.com
Follow on Instagram: http://instagram.com/slowgrowth

#slowgrowth credits 🎬
Creating Slow Growth Academy would have never been possible without a dedicated group of freelancers, creatives & badass human beings...

•  Mark D’Avella is our tech and operations wizard 🧙‍♂️ (yes… my big bro!)
•  Natalie Pidding created the @slowgrowth Instagram account from scratch and helped with nearly every aspect of building Slow Growth Academy.
•  Taiga Fukuyama is our assistant editor that organized over 3,800 clips to prep me for editing.
•  Luum Studio designed our epic website.
•  Tara Jacoby created the beautiful course illustrations & animations.
•  Lina Cordero is our @slowgrowth social design.
•  Eric Swartzwelder & Jardeson Rocha came through to help us with additional design & animation work.
•  Stefan Kunz created the hand lettering on our Giant Leaps print.
•  Thanks for crazy detailed feedback from Jason Zook, Caroline Zook, Michelle D'Avella & Megan D'Avella.
•  One Acre Fund Footage was shot by Kellogg school of Management Alumni spotlight series

And thanks to you! I wouldn't have been able to create Slow Growth Academy without you guys all showing up to watch my videos every week. I hope you find that this helps you on your journey.
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2020-08-18

## Transcript
 Today's the day. Every time. So there's something I haven't told you. I've woken up almost every morning for the past couple months to work on one of the biggest projects of my life. It started out as a simple idea, but as my small team and I saw the potential, it got progressively more and more exciting. Last week I teased the project with a little trailer, and comments came flying in with speculation about what it could possibly be. Well, the time has come for that big announcement, and no, I did not yet get the rock on my podcast. No, Natalie is not pregnant with my baby or the rocks baby. Some of these guesses were just out of control. The truth is that over the past year, I have been working with a very small and dedicated team to create something really special. And that's something special is... Of course platform. And it's called Slow Growth Academy. I'm going to fast pace always on culture. We're bombarded with messages offering instant gratification. Get fast results. 10 times your income overnight. Three hacks you need to know. It's so easy to see what everyone is up to online, and buy into the false promises that so many offer out. But most of us know the truth. That success doesn't happen overnight. Giant leaps begin with small steps. It takes time and dedication and a willingness to push through discomfort and doubt. And that's the lesson that I've learned firsthand over the past decade of my life. From building my filmmaking business, depending off $97,000 in student debt, performing healthy habits, making my first documentary, and growing my YouTube channel. Whenever I've set out to do something meaningful, it always began with small steps. And that's why I wanted Slow Growth Academy to be different. I wanted to create no bullshit courses on self development, filmmaking, and creativity. A platform built for those who understand that true progress comes when you combine patience and persistence. Alright, so I know that I said I created a course platform, but it's really so much more than that. Slow Growth Academy creates courses, but we also build tools and cultivate community. So the one thing that we're not going to do is create hundreds of courses. Slow Growth Academy is a less but better approach to creating courses online. Instead, I'm setting out to create an intentional collection of digital programs that focus on everything that I've mastered about self development, filmmaking, and creativity. So no, I won't be teaching you how to style your wardrobe or how to burn scrambled eggs. Right now, if you go to slowgrowth.com, you will find my very first course called Simple Habits. That's right. I finally made my habits course that I've been talking about for the past three years. Like I said, good things come to those who wait. This course is everything that you've come to expect from my YouTube videos and more. Thoughtful, cinematic, a little bit weird. So is that a banana you just happy to see me? It's a banana. I like to think of it as a good weird. Unlike my YouTube videos, this course and all future courses are designed to get you to take action. Self exploration exercises will guide you through the material as you move from one lesson to the next. And they're immersive. For example, Simple Habits includes a 30 day text message accountability series that will help you stay committed to your goals. Are these the best courses in the world? I'm far too humble to say something like that. So I hired a professionally trained voice over actor to do it for me. These are the best courses in the world. Nailed it. Slow growth academy also has a store with a few select tools. As you guys know, over the past three years of making YouTube videos, I've never sold merch and I have never rushed to create physical products. It's so easy to slap your logo on a cheap product. I throw it online and start selling it to simply make a quick buck. And that is not what I wanted to do. I wanted to really go about this slowly finding the right products, curating and creating the right tools that I personally use in my own life and that I think will help you on your own slow growth journey. So for the past few months, we've been researching materials, manufacturing and logistics, inspecting every detail to make something that we're proud of. Just like our courses, you're not going to go to our store and see dozens of products. Right now, we just have two. A notebook and a print. We'll be developing additional tools in the future and adding them slowly over time. With that said, if your wall is already filled up with prints, if you've got a dozen notebooks and they're all half empty, I strongly encourage you to use up what you have right now and to pause before you make any purchase on our store. What I'm most proud of is that we're donating 30% of all store profits to a charity called one acre fund. The money will be used to help African farmers take small steps they need to grow their way out of hunger and poverty. And last and maybe most importantly, slow growth was built to bring together a community of like-minded people. To bring together people who value self-development, productivity, who have shared interest and want to live a life of intention. If there's one thing that I've learned on my own slow growth journey, it's that you can't do it alone. Having mentors, friends, and those to confide in will help push you through the tough times. So we've created a couple different ways to help bring you guys together. For starters, we built at slow growth on Instagram. Get quick hits of inspiration and mini tutorials to help you stay motivated and to keep your feet to the fire. I've talked a lot about social media over the years. It can often have its dark sides. And that's why I think it's so important to take control of your feet, to really curate it in a way where you're seeing sources of inspiration that lift you up and don't drag you down. And so we'll be using the hashtag slow growth that way we'll be walking connect together to share our own stories and to give each other encouragement along the way. And we've also built a slow growth slack community for everyone who enrolls in a slow growth course. Get the channel up for a loving kick of encouragement, get advice to help you overcome roadblocks, or discuss your favorite bicep workout. I know that's what I'll be using it for. That's slow growth academy. That's what I've been working my butt off on over the past six months. And I hope that you'll go check it out. It would really mean the world to me. But to be honest, if you don't have the money right now to buy a course, if you don't have the money to buy any of the tools that we've listed on the site, then please, please do not feel pressured too. Do not feel like you need to go out and buy these things to feel complete. I'm going to continue to make videos here on YouTube for free as much as I can. And your support has always meant the world to me. I could not have built this without you. Thank you so much for watching.
