# Ground Up 040 - Grit And Gratitude w/ Brian Bowen Smith
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZdpV_SWbw_Y
http://www.groundupshow.com

Brian Bowen Smith is a legendary photographer known for his celebrity portraits. He’s shot key art for movies, television & magazines & his portfolio is prolific. He’s photographed Miley Cyrus, Nicki Minaj, Martin Scorsese, Kevin Hart and… Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson.

We talk about Brian’s past & his humble upbringing, how starting out with nothing gave him an outlook on life that carry’s through to this day. He also uncovers how one becomes a celebrity photographer and the ten year struggle he had to break into the industry.

Find Brian on Instagram:  http://www.instagram.com/brianbowensmith
View his work:  http://www.bowensmith.com/
**Keywords:** brian bowen smith, photography, how to, celebrity, celebrity portraits, celebrity photography, ground up, the ground up show, film, filmmaking, netflix, minimalism, Matt D'Avella, matt davella, filmmaker, interview, conversation, self help, Miley Cyrus, The Rock, Dwayne Johnson, Martin Scorses, Kevin Hart, Nicki Minaj, 
**Date:** 2018-01-03

## Transcript
 I suffered immensely when I first started, you know, just like everyone that goes through it. There was no difference. And I made my opportunities. And to advantage of them when they were there. But it took a long time. I've been doing this for 20 years. And people who's considering wonder, why am I not? Dude, I get so much better than, you know, and sometimes it's not so much better that's being it. Just about what the picture is. There's so much more to it. And that's the thing that I think people when they get into it and really experience it like, oh well. Okay, now I see. Because nothing's easy. Whether it seems easy or not, they're still nothing easy about it. Brian Bowen Smith is a legendary photographer known for his celebrity portraits. We shot key art for movies, television magazines, and everything in between. If you take a couple steps right outside of my apartment here in Los Angeles, you'll see three billboards in the city with his work on it. His portfolio is prolific. He's worked with everyone from Miley Cyrus to Martin Scorsese, Kevin Hart, Nicki Minaj, and Dwayne The Rock, Johnson. We talk about Brian's past and his humble upbringing, how starting out with nothing, gave him an outlook and a perspective on life that still carries through to this day. He also uncovers how one becomes a celebrity photographer to begin with, and the ten year struggle he had to break into the industry. This episode of The Ground Up Show is brought to you advertisement free. If you want to help and contribute to the show, you can head over to iTunes and leave a quick rating. They help to promote the show, they help to get the word out, and they make me feel all warm and fuzzy on the inside. So if you could do that, it would be a huge help. It would mean a lot to me. And now, this is Brian Bowen Smith. You're listening to The Ground Up Show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matthew Evela, and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. Brian, thanks for coming on the show. You're welcome. Appreciate you being here. It's funny. I just was starting to do some research into your work and look at everything that you've done. And the more and more I look into it, the more I realize, like everywhere I go, I see it. Like on Billboard, it's like especially like the movies lately. Sorry about that. Yeah, no, it's great. But yeah, I really want to obviously go back and delve into how you got started. And a lot of this podcast is directed towards people who are just getting started out. And how do I even begin? But I'd love to hear a little bit about what your work is focused on right now and the different things that you've been up to. What I'm doing right now, well, I am concentrating my personal work on a new show that I'm developing. So all my spare time, just dedicated to still researching, finding materials, finding subjects and kind of planning everything out. That's kind of the hardest part about my personal work is just figuring out what I'm going to do and how to implement it and how to get everything to happen on the day that I needed to happen. So I've been doing that a lot and still, you know, writing down ideas and you know, extending on how to make them into what I want them to be. I'm trying to do something a little different. So. And with these personal projects, it's like, they're all self deadlines. I imagine it's like, I want to, but obviously you have to set some kind of deadline. And we're going to go on. You actually don't. I mean, if you set a deadline, I think that you're going to force yourself to meet that deadline. And if you're not ready, you're not ready. Like I was planning on doing this show last October. And I just, you know, I call the gallery and said, there's no way. Because you don't want your personal work to suffer in any way. You're in a meantime, if it's not there, it's not there. And it's not like, you know, you can whip out, you can whip out a bunch of nude pictures of anyone and have a show. And you know what I mean, but, you know, this one is kind of a little bit different, especially on more in depth than in my last ones. And the last ones weren't easy, easy either. I mean, one of the pictures was the world horses, which was eight, eight girls. Sort of get eight girls all in the same place all the same time with weather, weather, you know, you know, cooperating and just, it was a, they took about two years. Wow. That's just like schedule everything. Just to get everything in everyone's there. Oh, then three girls cancel. So now we can't do it. And it's not like, you know, I just can't use any girl. It was a certain kind of girl and a nice mixture of racism. So it was really important that the right girls did it. Now one of them all be similar in size and shape, you know what I mean? Yeah. So it looked like a herd of horses. So it's like things like that that, you know, sometimes they happen real fast, and sometimes they take time. Right. With a client project, say if it's, there's a movie coming up. There's so many other factors coming in that you got to get the shot. You got to make it happen no matter what with the personal stuff. You, it's not that it's not a different standard though. Is it, it's that, I mean, it's the vision, I guess. It's, you know, I'm not going to try to sit here and act like I'm some genius. That's, oh, it's the, you know, it's listen. It's, most of these pictures, you know, are pretty lucky. You know what I mean? Especially, you know, working for clients. It's not there's seven, eight different people pulling you in different directions to get what they want. And, and everyone's vision is got to come together as one. So I, I just, my job is to try to make all of them fit like a puzzle. And, and the, the end product comes out really well. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. You know, it depends. It's not in my control 100%. So the personal stuff is. So I can be a perfectionist. I can say this, this isn't working. Kill this, do it again. You're continually learning and, and making it work. And then when you see it and you're like, wow, I love this. Then that, that's all that matters. People might not get it. People might love it. People might hate it. It's, but it doesn't matter. That points. This is what I want you to see. Was the art stuff when you first got started out? Was that kind of where you wanted to go with it? Or is that something that it just as you evolved? You know, it's, it was the easiest thing to do because I didn't have any jobs. So all, everything that I did, I was just out creating and trying to do things. And I've always been a fan of, you know, photography books and, and, and fine art. So I'm like, wow, one day, wouldn't it be amazing if I could do this? So I did a lot of that. Once you start working, unfortunately, the level that gets put on the shelf. And you've got to make a living. So if you don't support yourself, you can't really do this fine art stuff. And, and for most people, it's not profitable. It's, it's, it's self-fulfilling and just, you know, accomplishments in my life that I set goals. And I want to achieve them. If I set a goal, I have to achieve it. Mm-hmm. You know, I mean, and there, you know, just like when I started, you know. I, if I had a dollar for everyone to tell me it was too late. And this, this industry is too saturated. And you're not going to be able to make it. And I'm like, why, how could you say that to someone? It pissed me off. Really bad. And I'm like, I know. I never, you know, looked at myself as a photographer once I wanted to do this. And I'm like, no, this is what I'm going to do and I am going to do it. You're going to mean, I think that's the difference between, you know, between a lot of these people that Grab a camera nowadays that's digital and they just go and look, oh, look at these great photos I've done then. They think that they're on their way to just taking over the industry. And that's great ambition. You're going to mean, but you got to take your break and look at and really understand what this is. And, and it's a business. Mm-hmm. So they don't understand that. And then they like, okay, you got a great picture in natural light when the opportunity was there. Those are moments that are great and for fine art people and for people who just want to have this as a hobby. There's nothing better than that. But you really do have to know what you're doing if you want to work and be at the level of some of the top photographers in the industry. There's nothing wrong with it. But you got to do your homework and you got to suffer. I mean, I suffered immensely when I first started, you know, just like everyone has a different role. You know, just like everyone that goes through it, there was no difference. And I made my opportunities and took advantage of them when they were there. But it took a long time. I've been doing this for 20 years. So in people, you know, when you're at the level where I am and not to sound arrogant, but people don't realize that I went through all that stuff. And even if they can do what I do, which is the most common thing. I could do that with my eyes closed. So can I. But I'm the one that got the job. And that's the difference. You know what I mean? And people who can sit there and wonder, why am I not. Dude, that dude, I could do so much better than, you know, and sometimes it's not so much better that's being it. It's like sometimes it's on a white wall for a movie poster. It's not just about what the picture is. There's so much more to it. And that's the thing that I think people when they get into it and really experience it like, well, okay, now I see because nothing's easy. Whether it seems easy or not, they're still nothing easy about it. And it takes, you know, would you say, it gets easier because I would say from my personal experience, like the early days were at the toughest. They were just like physically demanding and you weren't getting paid share. And you were just, those shops still exist. Yeah. Listen, the industry is the industry. When it's flourishing, look what happened in music. Look, we were just talking in on the way over, you know, about music videos. How much, you know, when there were million dollar videos. Now they're like, give me use A7S and have your buddy shoot it. Yeah. And where do you play them? MTV's not playing any music. You know what I mean? So if that changes and you were a video music director for photographer, what do you do? You're not going to be doing, you know, car photographers. I imagine that they've suffered immensely when they're like, oh, we'll build all this in post. We don't need to go shoot in anymore. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? So, you know, the money is not, you know, rolling in like, you know, oh, and the fashion. Give me this huge button. No, they're like, listen, this is what we got. And that's all there is. So if you want to do it, do it. If not, we'll move on. And now there are hundreds and hundreds of photographers that can do it. Do you know what I mean? So, so there is a lot more work and a lot less money for a lot of these jobs. Yeah. It's also easier to get in and to start getting paid because you just grab a camera. And then you have a couple months experience and you can start shooting. You can start taking video. You can start really producing beautiful work. Yeah. But that's not, you're not. It's also reputation because let's face it. If they say, listen, we have a cover of magazine five grand all in, right? And we send it to Annie and Stephen and Joe and Jim Bob. If Annie takes it because she wants to work with the client. You know, the celebrity that's on the cover. And she's going to do it for five grand. What are the chances of Jim Bob's going to get it? As soon as I'm saying, so reputation and building your, you know, image still plays a big role in that. Yeah, because it's not just quality of work and cost. It's about guaranteed. They're like, hire you. You're going to, like, you've seen my work. You know that I can do it every time. You may be paying more money than somebody else. But there's a part of this industry that I just will not be able to get into because of that factor. We know Brian's great, but we can't take a chance because this has to work. And we know this guy can deliver every time. And you know, and that's part of also getting in and staying in. Like, you know, having that reputation of, like, I deliver. And I deliver every time. Your money is good with me. There's something if it was my money, I'd want that too. You know what I mean? And then there's jobs where you can take a chance. People have taken a chance on me and ended up getting in. You know what I mean? But those chances don't come up often because people love security. Do you know what I mean? Or a magazine, like, see magazine who I've, I've started and done. 11, 12 other covers and help launch it. Once someone else took over the magazine, I haven't shot a cover since. They have their people. They have their things. So you win some, you lose some. Right. I've noticed that, too, with client work, where, especially I work with a lot of startups and tech companies and then you get in the door. You build this a relationship. And you nurture over two years and you really deliver time and time again. And then, you know, new marketing director comes in. And then all of a sudden, you know, they might reach out to you. But hey, they're also bringing their relationships and the video guy that they know. Yeah. And like if you're going to change something and you're coming in to somewhere to say, you know, I'm going to, you know, we've got the mag. Part of that is we've got a revamp who's shooting it. Otherwise, isn't it the same thing? Mm-hmm. Do you know what I mean? So, you know, that, that just things that happen in Nate Lee in every industry. People are, you know, heads of companies and all of a sudden, oh, yeah, we sold it and everyone's getting like, oh. But, you know, your boss that hired you doesn't own it anymore. So there's no say. So, you know, that's just part of life. But, you know, I think with every job, I don't care what it is. You've got to be able to pick yourself up and reinvent yourself and look forward. Look forward and say, oh, this could probably happen. So I'm going to have, start already, start a backup plan. Yeah, I think people probably get a little bit too comfortable, especially when things start to work in a certain way. And like you said with the music videos, you think it's going to last forever. No, it's, it's like a relationship. You know what I mean? You can be married, happily, married, you think, oh, I'm good. Do you know what I mean? You're not. You've always got to respect your wife, treat her and remind her. Because if you start ignoring the things that got you in that relationship, your relationship starts to suffer. Do you know what I mean? And, and work is the same way. I mean, my, I have a relationship with photography. I look at it like that. I treat it like that. And I think that anyone who gets too comfortable in those can, their work is going to suffer. They get too cool for school. Look, I got this. Like, you know what I mean? You start, oh, if the big job money jobs aren't there on the little ones, I don't need the try, isn't it? Let's just get this over with and get on to the important things. It's like now those little ones are so important and don't forget them. Because it'll come back and put you in your ass. 100%. And you never know these little jobs. You never know like you shoot this girl and you don't know, you know, whatever it's 200 bucks. I'm going out of pocket. You know that. Then two later, she's the lead of Star Wars. And, you know, she did not have a good experience with you. And she hated the pictures. You'll never work with her. On the big jobs. She'll just see your name and go now. Oh, that guy's terrible. You got to mean and you might not be. But you, you didn't show her the respect that she deserved and the little job. So you miss all the big jobs. And that's that's why you have to put everything that you have. And to and really have respect for the the the the work that you're putting into it. Like whether you're doing weddings or bar mitzvahs put everything you have into it. Because it's it's not only for just that one outcome or maybe they'll come back down their road. It's that you're actually crafting your skill and you're getting better and you're learning how to work with clients. There's so many different things that if you just write it off and say, Oh, you know, this is I look at it like this. I like it every opportunity. Such a great one of like if there's a little magazine that, you know, and they're like, Oh, you know, we'd love for you to do it, but there's no way you do it. I'm like, I'll totally do it. And I love to go and do like them. I mean, like I try my hardest to make this like to blow people away. So everyone that's like, wait, oh, that's cool. This magazine looks great this this month. Who did that? And then they see your name. And then hopefully they're like, oh, yeah, no wonder you're going to mean like, that's the little, you know, times you can take advantage and really shine. You know, I mean, it's like, I love giving me a small pond any day. It's like investing in a way, too, right? Everything you do is an investment. It's a great way to put it. Every single thing you do, even even the what you Instagram, everything's an investment. And look at if you're either care about what you do, you know, and when you're really care about what you do, you would never do anything that you weren't a hundred percent, you know, happy to do. And put even when you're not happy, put a hundred percent of the effort to make it good. You know what I mean? I mean, those concepts were like, oh, really? This purple backdrop, because I'm just, I'm not into it. But I find ways to make it work. When I get hired for work, I'm a tool. It's not like, go do what you want. Like, we want your image in your notes. Like, here's what we need to do. And this is the color pattern. And this is what we got to do. And sometimes even the celebrities are like, oh, I hate this. You know, and I'm like, well, let's figure out how to make it, where you don't hate it. And we have to do it good, you know? And just like them, they're doing it. You know, they're in it for a reason, too. So they've got to do it. So let's just, you know, it's a job. Then there's things where it's like, oh, you have full range. Do whatever you want. Amazing. Yeah. But there's not every day. Yeah. When do you know when you can push back a little bit? Like, even it, you're like, ah, I don't know about this purple. Yeah. You do, like, voice my opinion. Okay. I definitely voice my opinion. And a lot of times that lose. Yeah. Yeah. I know that from first hand experience as well. But like, obviously, you have to put it out there. Like, let them know, hey, I don't know if it's going to work. But then, like, they're the ones paying for it. They're your client. Well, they, you know, listen to the reasoning. And there's like, there's a reason for it. Because this thing that we're doing, the purpose of the color and the, and you know, our viewers and we did research in blah, blah, blah. I'm like, okay. Obviously, you know, I can pass. Yeah. If I'm like, no, this is terrible. I don't want me or whoever I'm shooting to go through this. Then I just say, listen, I, you will all respect our paths. And there is there a line also with like, like, you were talking about your reputation. If you're like, if this is nothing, because it's, you, you're not saying, oh, you just say, listen, it's just not me. And I, I don't want to do a disservice to you. So I really think that there's someone out there better, you know, for you. So I'm, I'm not passing so much for me as, as much as for you. Mm-hmm. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. So, but I, and that's, that doesn't happen often. Very, very rarely. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? It's because most of the time, it's like, I can make this look cool. Yeah. I just, let's, let's not do it with this thing. Let's do it this way. And I'll come up with ideas. And, you know, oh, that's fine. They all would love that. Mm-hmm. Do you know what I mean? Or I'll even show them at the shoot. Look, look, look at this. Same purple, but we did it this way instead. And, oh, cool. Yeah. And even if it's rare, saying no into climbing work is definitely a luxury that, really can only be achieved once you've been in the game for a while, once you've been working for a long time. Because I feel like in the very beginning, you used to say yes to everything. Okay. And like a relationship. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like if she wants to do something, sure. I love the zoo. Yeah. I mean, it's depressing. And most of the kids don't like why she wants to. But you go to the zoo and you've gotten candy, whatever the hell she wants. And you make her happy. Yeah. You know what I mean? They're sacrifices that you deal with. So, you know, that, that happens. But yeah, you definitely can turn down things when you're at a certain level. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. First start getting into photography. Probably 20 years ago. I mean, I did it in high school. It was the only class I ever got an A in. But then I was, you know, as a gymnast and I was an athlete. So I never had time really. And I couldn't afford a camera. If I wasn't the school's camera, there was no way it's happening. So I kind of put it on the shelf. But I did have a super love for it. And my teacher was like, wow, you're, you're really good at this. You know what I mean? It was the first time my life that someone kind of in school related was like, wow. You're good at this. And I was like, really? I had no idea. You know, I just did what I, you know, learned and kind of, you know, did the projects. You know what I mean? But I had a love for it. When I hold a camera on, I have a camera on. Even today, it's like, it's so cool to me. And that they're all very personal. You know what I mean? And that infatuation of that and knowing that you're just doing something that's like, you know, you're capturing it. You feel, I always felt like I was doing something important. Even if it's just getting a good picture of someone. And when I did get a picture of someone and gave it to them, that's not in the, we're like, so excited. That thrill of just pleasing someone was addictive as hell. You know what I mean? And I still have that today. Like, you know, I have to. That's, I, I crave that it's my drug. Like, I need more. You can never get enough of that. Like, let me overdose on it. Yeah. It could be tough there, too. Because then it's, you put a lot of stuff. You put a lot of stuff. You know, with all the exclamation points. And that's what you live on. You're like, oh, shit. Like, I killed it on that one. They almost want to print it and put it up on your wall. Or the other way, where they don't respond for a couple days. And you're like, what the hell, you know, in my age and I drive him crazy. Like, did you hear back? Yeah. You gave it to him yesterday. I know, but they have to have seen it by now. Yeah. It's like, just ridge relax. Yeah. It's like, I definitely killed that. Like, I'm, I'm pretty sure I killed that. Yeah. Like, I think I did okay on that one. You go back and forth. Then you get, and they're like, you know what? I don't care. I'm happy with it. Yeah. This is that suit. And when you see the bubbles coming up, you're like, oh, they saw it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so later in life, when I, you know, I was out here and just, I picked up a camera. And I was making little videos. And I needed, um, little skate videos. And I needed someone to shoot the cover. And they were like, 500, 600 bucks. I'm like, do you know what I can't afford that? You know, just do it for me. And they're like, no. So I got mad. I was like, screw that. I'll just, I'll learn how to use the camera and shoot myself. I'm be there shooting all the content. Mm-hmm. And then when I started doing it, I'm like, I found myself like, wow, this is way more fun. This is way more simple. I can concentrate on what I'm doing because it's just me and the camera and keep in it simple. It's really just about getting a great shot. Not really worried about technical, you know, video and everything. Well, you know, as I, you still have to know a lot. There's a lot of knowledge. Frame rates and sound. Totally different worlds. It's, it's, it's a completely different world. And this dress of just, you know, even when you know it, it's never perfect or goes wrong or, oh, did I get, you know what I mean? Photos. It's like, psh. Psh. And you know, you back in the day, you're filmed like, you know, like, oh, I got that one. You have to wait, you know, week to see it. But you're like, oh, which was kind of cool in a way. Yeah. And even like the backing up process, like I did weddings for quite a while when I started out. And it's, you just have a backup photographer, just in case, because like now with the digital stuff, cartoon and corrupt, whatever, but with video, it's a little bit more challenging to ensure that. And also just like the size of the video. It's just hard. Yeah. Period. And I'm like, I like keeping things simple. You know what I mean? I mean, once I studied books and taught myself how to use a camera, everything else kind of started coming into place. I could just concentrate on what I'm doing. You know what I mean? And really just try to get creative and make moments. And, and then just do it. Mm-hmm. When was it that it started to turn into a profession, where you could actually make money from it? Probably 10 years after that. Wow. So it was 10 years from when you first started. Yeah. What were you doing in between then? Was there, did you have other jobs? And, you know, living off my wife, doing odd jobs. Just anything that would make it work. Mm-hmm. And we, right around the ninth year mark, we were, we were pretty broke. And like it was to the point where I had to look at her and go. Ugh. This is not good. You know what I mean? I promised her this good life. And we got married and we're expecting our first kid. And I'm like, man, what, you know, I had that. What am I going to do? Give this up. You know what I'm going to get a job at a restaurant? Like, I'll do it. And she's like, don't you dare. So give you, give up now. I will never forgive you. And I just thought, man, that's just like so cool that I have someone that I thought was just must in her mind be going, well, what is this guy doing? You know, because I would get jobs here and there. You know what I mean? Like, everyone's in a while. We get a job. Oh, gosh, that was great. You know, but not steady enough towards it. We're, you know, supporting you. And then, you know, after we had the conversation, and I finally got a really great agent. And things just started, you know, stacking up. One after another. And at first was like, we made enough money this month to cover our mortgage plus, you know, I can take you to dinner. To, oh, yeah, we got three months mortgage in the bank. So we can, you know, relax for a little bit, you know, and to eventually, you know, you work your way up to where, you know, you have stability. And you can say, now I'm a working photographer. Mm-hmm. You need that support, though, from the beginning. You do. Even if you're single. Yeah. You need reinforcement. You need to know that, you know, you're not the only one that believes in you. You know, because you need other people to believe in you, to actually start working. Mm-hmm. If you want to be, you know, in the business part of it, you really do. Yeah. The business part of it, too, is it's definitely, like you said, really challenging to get going. Yep. And that it's pretty dicey. Early, some people get lucky, and then they start getting really great paid gigs, like right out the gate. Um, but, like, for me personally, I graduated with $100,000 in debt, and then I'm like, They set you up at the end. You're in the hole. Yeah. And then so then I'm living it home with my parents for a couple years, and I'm just scraping by. And it's like one or two projects, one client leads to another, and then eventually it builds up. But you have to be willing to go through some shit to get through. Yeah. You do. And I think that that's the whole thing, is it, you know, you can weed out a lot of the people by watching it. Not happen. You know, everyone thinks they're so good, but you're not. You. They're like, I'll even admit myself. I'm like, there are so many people that are better photographers than me. Absolutely. That I envy and look, you know, up to. And some of them aren't working. You know what I mean? But you know, it's like, I don't know what to tell you. Like, you got to figure out, you got to figure out what is broken in this recipe. It's got to be the business side, because of course I thought the same way I would, there was these people that I idolized that were around my age and they were doing the same type of film work. And I would literally emulate their work. And I would try to copy in and be like, wow, this is really good. And for whatever reason, I was able to actually turn it into a business where others are now working like a nine to five corporate job that they're not filled in. It's like, where is that gap? And like, what did you learn about like the business side of this? My personality. And I think people can see when I work with them. They see that I love this. You know what I mean? And I get along with people. I'm in a business that is, you know, revolves around people and being around people. And I think when you really do love it. And I don't, I don't seek fame. I don't seek, you know, like I said, I'm going to drown on junkie when it comes to like, when someone says, God, that's a girl. I love that photo you took of me. Oh, can I, can print it in my house? Like to me, that's all I need. I don't need to be like recognized or, you know, someone's, oh, you know, like, you know, you're, you're a big name now. I'm like, I'm not, not really. You know what I mean? Like, I've gained some sort of notoriety, but I don't, that's not really why I do it. Or some people, I see that they want that. They want to be respected. They want that. They want people to know their name. Like, I'm just as much as the celebrity is, who I'm shooting. Do you know what I mean? And I just don't care for that. I really honestly, I don't. Everything that I do is, is for myself and, you know, just to help move forward and see how far I can grow. It's going to come with it either way. Like, sometimes it's weird. I'll go somewhere. Oh, my, I know, and I'm like, shocked. Like, how do you know who I am? You know, like, oh, you're kidding me. And Instagram has been a, you know, crucial role in that as well, because and I Instagram, like, I'll Instagram my fat dog. And yeah, I was looking at it. It's like stupid stuff. Like I'm very personal. That's what Instagram is for for me. It's like, yeah, you want to know me. I know, I could put up all my work and make myself look like, you know, the best photographer. You know, it's just, but it's like, it's not interesting to me. Like you see it already. You see the bill. You know, sometimes it's fun to put up work stuff mixed with what I do in life. And I think for me, it's like my life. And what I get to do now and the people I surround myself by that's the interesting part about my life. And the fact that I'm just, for once in my life, I'm happy. You know what I mean? And I'm happy that I'm doing what I'm doing. And I want people to know and look at that and go, man, this guy's just like me. You know, I want people to know that you can make it if you want to. And there is a way to get into this industry, or at any industry. Like you said, wedding photographers are, I have a friend that was like, man, I can't, you know, get into that, you know, and he started shooting hotels when he went on vacation. Now he's shooting like major, you know, companies and they're flammer on the world. There's shooting hotels and man. It's like, wow, how cool is it? You found that niche on an accident. And he's killing it now. So it's, you never know. I could see that though with the Instagram. And like to each their own, there are some amazing Instagram photographer accounts that like every single image is gorgeous. And when you even look at it like in the full stack scrolling down, it's just, it's a beautiful, it's a big, it's a big, a great Pinterest page. Yeah. But that's what, to me, that's what Pinterest is for. And you know what? I still enjoy those. And I get why people do that too. And they, you know, I've had people tell me like you should do a separate account with just your work. So it's not mixed up, you know? And I'm like, I have an agent for that. Go to my website. Yeah. Like, why? Yeah. And I'm like, you know, it's either, if you don't, this is the thing, you don't have to follow. You don't have to like it. Because it's my page. You know what I mean? So, you know, but that's a whole, you know, like anything that's, you know, it's part of the business. You know, doing work, you know, your agent has something different to say about what you think. You know what I mean? Like, oh, don't put this in my portfolio. Oh, but that's my favorite picture. Yeah, but this is what we're doing. You know, so I have to trust them and let go of things that I, you know, creatively think, oh, that. So it's, you know, there's a lot of things. It's a collaboration. Yeah, the first time I went to an agent and they looked at my book, I'd probably 50, 60 pictures in it. And by the time I left that meeting, I had two. Wow. I'm like, well, if you want to come with us, you need to go do more stuff like this. These are the only two things in your book that I can get you work from. And I'm looking at, like, are you crazy? Like, you're just three, four years of what I've tried to create. And, you know, I was bitter for a day or two, but then I realized, man, she's right. And, you know, what else? Who am I to tell someone who's got all these successful photographers that she's representing? I'm like, maybe I should listen. So I'm, and it took me four years to get an agent. And I had to go back to her every year. Kim Gillis. She owned an agency called Montage. And she had some great people. And I'm like, man, I gotta be with her. So I walked in off the street and was like, hey, she's like, can I help you? Like, what are you doing? I'm like, oh, I'm a photographer. And so I, you know, she's like, great. You know, making an appointment. But she was like, you just came out off the street. And I was like, yeah, I was, you know, walking by. And I saw, you know, you were an agent. And I saw, man, I come up. And she's like, wow. So she's like, all right, well, why don't you make a meeting. We'll see your stuff. And then, you know, she took out these of the two. And so every year I went back with more pictures like that. And every year she's like, wow. Okay. Keep going. And I'm like, keep going. Like another year. But she was right. And then, you know, well, I think it was three or four years later. You know, I went back in. And I was like, there's just when I was, you know, in that, you know, ninth year. Just. And then the turnaround point was I went to a meeting. And she finally said, you know, all right. Well, we've got rid of a lot of photographers. And we're making it, you know, a little smaller and more boutique. And I was like, great. Sitting there just thinking of myself, this is a waste of time. Again, like, here's this, you know, she's going to say now that, you know, they're downsizing and they got it, you know. So, but if you'd like to come aboard, we'd, we'd like to develop you. And I'm looking at it. I still didn't register because I was ADDing and thinking about not one more depressing interview or or comment or meeting. I can't take it anymore. I was almost at my breaking point. And she's like, look at me like shocked that I wasn't surprised. And I looked at him like, what do you mean? And like, am I in or am I out? You know what I mean? She's like, well, you tell me you like. And I was like, I literally started crying. I was like, I can't believe this. And when all my wife and I were just like, no way. Because I knew that that would be the changing point. Having someone as powerful as her backing you. You're going to get in front of the people that you need to be in front of. Well, then it was up to me. Yeah, that's amazing. That you were that persistent. And also patient. Yeah. To keep coming back every, you know, every year, however often it was for four years. And she never would. She told me she never would have done it. Had I not been. She just knew she goes people are going to like this guy. People are going to get him. His works just not the level right now. For me to help him. But after I worked hard and I, you know, I did. I repeated the picture she said. I started begging celebrities to let me do spec shoots. You know what I mean? Oh, if I'll do a headshot for free, if you just let me do this picture. You know, and slowly they did it. And you know, and I, you know, I did my part. And then she did her part. And that's what started my career. I suspect that you also didn't huff and puff when she said no at first. You know, I think a lot of times people can just go. No, so upset. Yeah. But didn't. I understood her. She was right. And even when I thought she was wrong, I listened to her. And I'm like, you know, and that's part of this business. You got to listen to people. You've got to let your ego and your artistic ability out the window sometimes. And just do what they need to do. And do it good and right. So that client's happy. Mm-hmm. You're going to make music people. You know, we're shooting a thing and they're like, they give me a concept. And I'm like, okay. Now, I'm like, let's make, you know, let's figure out how to make this amazing. So your album cover is so dope to you and all your viewers. You know what I mean? Whether it's something I'd even put in my portfolio. I, you know, I don't know. But I want, you know, I want this to be cool. So you can convert it. But there's nothing, you know, then just like, wow. I never thought I'd be doing a rainbow theme with, you know, but look how cool this looks. Yeah, those collaborations. How did they, how do they unfold? And, you know, say, an artist comes to you where, you know, you have a lot of creative freedom. But it's just the, the two of you or their team, and you know, they'll have, you know, the label, the talent, art directors, set designers. We all have meetings, you know, conversations. And it's mainly the artist getting across her vision of what you're like, Miley Cyrus. She called me and said, hey, let's go to the beach and just shoot some pictures. I had no idea what I was getting into. So I just grabbed my camera, grabbed one light, went to the beach with her by ourselves. And we did these, like, probably the best stuff I've done ever. Just us, okay, look at this. Let me do this. And it was like playing. And I got home when I was like, wow. That was like unbelievable. And we just heard running around and me, you know, just, heard giving me the idea. And then me, just lighting it cool and trying to make it look nice. You know, and so the two of us just went and did it. And it turned out to be, you know, stunning stuff goes back to what you're saying in the beginning is that sometimes there's so many things that you can't predict. And you don't know what the weather's going to be like that day could end up coming out shitty. But you went out and then it just, and we went to the beach and it was overcast. Yeah, which absolutely played on the photos in the mood of them. And you know what I mean, it wasn't a typical beach day, which was such a blessing. But I didn't know it to we shot the first frame. So yeah, it's, it's literally you've got to, you've always got to be open to the universe letting itself into your photo. I, let's, I listen to everyone. I'm not, I'm not shy about someone creating an idea and me implementing it. And then, you know, and it's like, the, the weird thing is that sometimes I'll get so much credit. You know, even the jamanji stuff. It's like, I took the photos, but those are directors. And, and Sony are the ones that made those things look so damn cool. So it's like, I get a lot of credit, even when it's not due, which is, you know, part of being a photographer being in this business, which is, man, isn't that a great thing? Take my work and make it look really great. You know what I mean? A lot of times, it's like, wow, you know what I mean? Wow, that's so sick. Cool, those guys. Then you get all the credit because everyone's like, oh, yeah, he shot that. Oh, man, that stuff was great. Like, yeah, a lot of people, it took a village. Well, it's crazy when you work on these big shoots. And I've only done a few of them, mostly in the indie world. Where I can take credit for most of the way to where I'm like, it was just me and a camera running around the country filming. But then I've done some of these big shoots where I'm like, I literally hit record. And that's all I did. And everybody out in the, yeah, there was some collaboration there. That's long as you're in the room. Yeah, you're the one that got the hit record. Again, remember, that's an important part. Because like you said, anyone might have been able to do that, but it is you. Do you know what I mean? So I think being there and being present and just being able to get the job is probably 50% of the business. Well, there's a reason why you're there. That's right. Whether you know what or not. Or whether someone else knows it or not. You know, because you only need to be in one little, tiny shoot for someone that notices you. To hey, you know, public, say, that was great. I have six other clients. You know, we got to get you doing stuff. Would you be willing to, blah, blah, blah. Yes, I'd love to. And that couldn't just catapult you or one magazine might love your stuff and you're cheap and you're working for them. And then, you know, you're doing it and you build your client out. That's all about relationships and repeat business. You're an, I mean, you know, I'll do this job and take 200 bucks. You know, to get to work with Nicole Kidman. So, you know, you just got to, you know, you got to be smart like in any business. You got to, you know, when, when to say yes, when to say no, what is the right choice? What is the wrong choice? When to recover from a wrong choice and make mistakes and make mistakes. Make mistakes. Because that's not what's going to be mistakes. Nothing's perfect. You're going to mean, and you got to be, you got to have really tough skin at the end of the day. That's what you really need. And you just got to be cool and, and be able to, to go with the flow and, and, and, you know, just go down the river with them. I mean, you know, try to swim upstream. It's, you're never going to get anywhere. You, you can try and, I'm the one that's going to do it. I'm going to swim all the way up that stream and you're like, you end up with so much farther down in the boat that you should have been just chilling and fishing. How do you get into celebrity photography? Because it's, it's obviously specific. Again, it's definitely a conscious choice. I was hanging out with some friends that, you know, and I was, I was doing a, you know, a documentary with this band 311 and, and met incubus through them and this big melee tour. And then I started shooting for incubus and going on tour with them and filming and shooting. And, um, some of Blair showed up because she was dating Jason Swartzman, who was in fan and planet. And I'm just like, oh my gosh. We, we were kind of hanging out backstage because she was hanging out by herself. It's now, we became friends. I'm like, hey, come over here. Let me take a picture of you. And I would just shoot a picture of her. Boom. Also, you have a picture of her. It's a leopard layer. You know what I mean? And then Jason was a huge actor too. So I'm like, do you think one day, you know, we could take some photos? Because I, you know, we're hanging out for, you know, six months on tour. And then he came over and we did this shoot. And so now I had some and I had Jason. So when I had that, I didn't know. And now it's like, someone's, public says, like, hey, can you do this? Or, you know, now this magazine wants to shoot someone. I love the picture to do it. And literally, that's how it started. And then someone went to her friends and they're in so-and-so. And publicists are my, you know, saving grace in this industry. They're the ones that, they're the ones that control what you do and what you don't do. For the most part, they can approve you. They can push for you. And they're just, their job is to make the client that they're working with happy. And make it smooth and make everything, you know, go well. If they know that you are on their side and they're doing that and protecting that person, which is very important, then, you know, they're going to use you again. But it's still all, it has to work. You have to do good work. That, you know, the celebrity has to love what you did as well. You know, there's so many things to get through to just do a shoot. You know what I mean? So that's what I mean, but you can't just be talented. You've got to be able to network. You've got to be able to deliver. You've got to be able to be trusted. You've got to be able to, you know, get in that door and stay in that door. You know, and those things, that's what took me a long time. Yeah, it's, I do love that. Just kind of, I guess you had a vision for it going in where you saw an opportunity. You saw, okay, if I shoot these two, then now I'm starting to develop this portfolio, where I can then eventually shoot more celebrities. And then it just, that's certainly leads itself to, I guess it adds an element of legitimacy. I guess through other people's eyes, it's almost like cloud, I guess. And I see that on this podcast as well. It's like the bigger guests like, yeah. And then it's like, boom, it's like, oh, I get like a good wrapper on the show. Boop, boop, boop, boop. And then all of a sudden, I have all these other wrappers that would be willing to, because they respect him, they respect my work, once they've seen it, and then kind of the dots connect. But when you first start out, you have nobody, that's the hardest thing, right? Yeah, I love my favorite thing is like, people will look in my web system. Man, you're amazing, you shot everyone. And I'm like, did you look at all the work or did you just look at who I shot? Because I don't think they looked at the photos. They just looked at and saw, here's, you know, so and so. They're not, yeah, they're not looking at the lighting and the composition. Exactly. Because if you're a photographer, maybe you do. Yeah. Or, you know, it's, but isn't that why TMZ exists and why the internet exists when it comes to celebrity. It's interesting. And it's, there's some type of validity when it comes to that. Like, you must be good if all these people are letting you shoot them. Yeah. You know, maybe, it takes, yeah, maybe not. Probably. I mean, I feel like eventually, you, you, you might be able to get five or, you know, it doesn't, but then eventually you have your reputation. If you've got five shoots with generous, generous, generous, generous, then probably. Right. If you've got one, you've got lucky. You know what I mean? So it's still, even today. Like, I still don't look at my career or what I'm doing today. Any different than still trying to get the big jobs. Still trying to get into great magazines. Like, I've been trying to shoot for interview magazine forever. And I did in the beginning, but then when they revamped, I guess what? And I got the boot. So how do I get back in? And I love that magazine. I love working with them. I love, you know, you know, GQ, which I think I'm perfect for, but obviously I'm not. But I still try to figure out how in the hell can I get in there? I got it, you know what I mean? So it's no different struggle than anyone trying to get all this work and get into the same magazines. You know what I mean? There's a lot of, there's some beginning photographers that are following me that I see, they are shooting for interview. And you know, whoever's art directing and doing that issue, they see something in them that it's a certain thing. So you got to wait, be patient and just keep trying. You know what I mean? It's not like, I should be able to shoot for interview dude, I'm BBS. You know what I mean? It doesn't work that way. And we get boring if you could just do everything you wanted to do, work with everyone you wanted to work with. And hopefully you would. Well, like, there's an excitement to reaching out to somebody, not knowing that there's something about a sample format when you have to work for it. Do you know what I mean? If things came easy, you're right. You know, but the thing in photography is that you get the job and you, it's become so much different while you're doing it. So it's not, even if it comes easy, you're still so into it and stoked if you're smart. But there is listen, there is this, when I get the call that I booked a big job, like, I'm movie poster or something like that. I am literally jumping up and down every single time. Because those don't come around every day. Do you know what I mean? And those are the ones that are on billboards and you know when I drive down the street and I look at them and I'm just like, you know, like last month. I saw one on one side, one on the other. And I literally took a picture in front of it like, this is what I want to show my grandkids. Yeah. Do you look who grandpa did? Do you know what I mean? Because that's rare. Super rare. You know, my agent texts me something really sweet that I'll never forget is like, dude, you have three billboards in town right now. Most people aspire in their life to do one. You've got three up at the same time. You're a boss. Thank you so much. And I'm like, man, that's incredible. And I never, I don't even know if I would have known that. Didn't I mean? Because, you know, you don't know when these things are going up. But once the movie, you shoot it, the movie posters are control of it. Sometimes, if they don't post that or that's do something, I might not know it's out yet. Do you know what I mean? Because it's, you know, controlled by the people who are doing it. You know, so it was really cool to see that. And, you know, and it's never gets old. And it doesn't make me any like, oh, I've cool now. I did that. I want to keep doing that for the rest of my career. I love the gratitude of it, too. You just kind of take a moment and you pause. Yeah, I could have stayed. I could have pulled out a lawn chair and has watched it. Everyone that walked by like, yeah, see those I did though. I'm sure you did buddy. I did that. It just given me change. No, no, no, no. I'm serious. I did. Yeah. So yeah, it's, it's all good. And I love, you know, that's why I want to do this podcast. And why I want to, you know, I go speak, you know, if someone wants me to speak or give people encouragement or help someone that's struggling and let them know that we all have the same problems. And I assure them that don't worry that struggle never goes away. So get used to it. Enjoy it. You know, but I am forever grateful for the life that I have. And you know, and I sit back at everything that I have, even my son, and I owe it all the photography. So it's really, really gratifying. And to be able to be, you know, one of the ones that, you know, get supported by it. And I make a living doing photography. It's seems silly. You know, sometimes I can't believe it. Like we're shooting Julia in half yesterday. And we're having so much fun. And Guy turns around and goes, dude, you're getting paid for this. And he whispered it like, I'm like, I know. Yeah, isn't it stupid? You know, but it's, that's the thing is that we literally were having fun. And it's infectious. So Julia was having fun. And you know, and we're like, just it went so smooth. And then we're like, oh my gosh, we're done. You know, so fast. Because you know, time flies when you're having fun. Yeah, I think you have to keep reminding yourself that, too. The fact that I can't believe I get paid for this. Like in the beginning, it was easy. That came naturally because I was like, I literally can't believe somebody's paying me for this. And then you built some confidence in your own skills. Yeah, I think that when you're broke and you're struggling, I knew every dime. I knew how much exactly how much money I owed. Each month. And I knew exactly how much money that was coming in and after that. It was like, I was a stock broker. You know what I mean? But, you know, now I couldn't tell you what I make. It's not. I know that I'm safe. You know what I mean? And thank God my wife handles everything else. And runs the office and does all the billing. And you know what I mean? We're able to keep that in the family. And she became, you know, you know, a crucial part of what I do. And it's a full-time job for her. That and she raises my kid. You know what I mean? So having a partner like that and not having to pay someone else is unbelievable. You know, my agents are great and, you know, I have a financial advisor that, you know, deals with, you know, here's what we need to do. Here's how much, you know, I get in allowance each week. And that's all I get. And it's not big. You know what I mean? So what it forces me to do is just remember, like it's just all you have. If you want to be able to live your lifestyle and save money and have a few years, and have a future, you know, which great. So I have everyone else doing that side of it. So I really now, in able to focus on what I really need to do, which is just continue what I'm doing and try to stay relevant and try to keep on, you know, keep an on. Was that something that came naturally to you? The, the not really worrying or caring too much about the money. Once you started to come in. And it was kind of like, it once. Yeah, everything becomes natural when it becomes easy. I'm not going to lie. You know what I mean? I can say it. Oh, no. Yeah. Having money is is a blessing. And it's just the stress of it. Like I remember paying off my student loans. And I just remembered like how, like you said, getting out of college, it's like, I think our system has set up so awkwardly. When, you know, how can you go out and try to get a job and live and try to support yourself when you're paying these student loans off. And you just don't have, you know, it's hard to make everything work. You know, we struggled my whole life as a child. We were in welfare, my mom was very poor. And there was no, it's like the simplest things in life. Like, you know, I'm going to play with this dirt and try to build a castle on a dirt. Like those are my toys at that point. So, and also like, I know what it's like to struggle. Really struggle. Like, we don't have food tonight. Sorry. There's no window. Let's try to get these hefty bags up because winter's coming. You know what I mean? And it's like, that's poor. You know what I mean? And I live that life till I was graduated high school. So I know what it's like. So money was very important to me in the sense that we need to buy food. It was necessities. There was no luxuries involved. You know what I mean? So the fact that I didn't care about money other than we need to figure out how to also get this money to be able to buy shoes and socks on underwear. Not I need this new bike. Or I want this new jacket because it's dope. And you know what I mean? It was like, now I'll get, I don't mind getting, you know, the cheap sneaks. As long as there's no holes in them. You know what I mean? So I still keep that mentality today in a sense that when I do buy something for myself, it's still like I'm budgeting it. I'm not looking at this wasting money. I don't throw it off the window and I know important it is. And I also try to give back as much as I can. I do a lot of charity work. And I think that more than money, my, what I can do with a photo is far more than what I can do, donating, you know, a certain amount of money, showing up and getting my celebrity friends involved that do have money. You know, there's a lot that you can do to kind of feel good about not feeling guilty that I do have money now. I can go out and buy the nice jacket now. But I still feel a sense of guilt. I don't know if that makes sense or not. But you know, if I build a well for generosity water and raising enough money to make that happen, I think that that's my way of saying, it is okay to have some money. You know what I mean? I can't, I don't feel guilty because I have money that I've done it. And I've earned because I know that I've earned it. Do you know what I mean? But there is a sense of like I feel better about it if I can give back and use my craft to help people. It's hard not to feel guilty because we kind of see this stuff all over the place. And a couple of my friends, they were on the podcast recently. They have a documentary in Netflix called Living on One Dollar. So they went to Guatemala and they lived on a dollar a day for two months. And for them it was, let's, well, they were like economy majors. And they were like, let's just, I won't experience what that would be like, because half of the world's population at the time lived with less than a dollar a day. And what do that's, I was just going to say, the real thing is don't do it for a couple of months. Do it for a couple of years. Yeah. I mean, this is their lives, right? And it's like, think about the guilt to come back. Because like, well, then those people that you met, the families and the friends that you made, you know, they're living on less than a dollar a day. I get it. There's not, you don't. Here's the thing. When you, you don't want to go backwards. You set your life in bars. And once you reach that bar, your job is to stay at that bar or move forward. It's literally just to go backward. I've set goals for myself. I set them low. And I reach them. And then I go higher. And then I go higher. Sometimes it's not in your hands. If this whole industry crashes, and they don't need photography anymore, right? That means that it'll work. And that means any leave, which doesn't work. That means, you know, everyone doesn't work. So what do you do? You have to keep going, and that would literally be the demise of me. So, all right, I have to figure out a new way. Well, if they're not doing photography, they're doing something that's going to be involved with it. Whether it's now we're doing it in digital or do I have to get my computer skills, not even further? Do you know what I mean? So that's what I mean, thinking of the future and thinking of all those things. And saying the bars, but my point is, once you get to a certain level, you don't want to go backwards because it's failure. It seems like failure. But sometimes you have to go backwards and start over. But if you'd ever been there and you're always just going and going and going, you know what I mean? It's a lot harder to understand. I embrace the way I grew up. I'm over it now. The fact that I know what it's like, it can be easy for me to start over. It's a lot harder for someone that never had to eat for a dollar a day. It's like, wait, what? Yeah, right. Why would I do that? You know what I mean? And that's impossible. There's no way anyone could eat for a dollar. You know what I mean? But it's possible. And you find ways. You know what I mean? It's like, that's why it's like, you get comfortable though when you're there. So it's like, how do you just keep moving forward and keep moving forward and trying not to move back? I think that's the only recipe for life that works for me. Like you're saying, nothing is guaranteed. So I do think that's a really great case to be a little bit more conservative. Don't be like so extravagant. You know, I mean, sure like indulge and enjoy what you have and appreciate it and go out and have nice dinners. But really find what you value. And I would say, don't go over the top. Like, you don't know just because you're making a part of it. It's like, I get, you know, like I said, I get an allowance. You know, so every Thursday, whatever's in my pocket account, they call it. That's all the money I have access to. So if I see, you know, if I want to go out and have a lobster dinner and spend all of it in one big Chobang and get a nice part of the wine, I do it. I'm like, screw that. I don't want this, you know what I mean? And then I know the next four days until Thursday rolls around, I don't have any money. And then I can't get any money. So it's like checks and balances. I'm going to buy these double RL pants. I'm going to have them for 10 years. I'm buying them. But then I got to live poor for the rest of the week. So it's weird because I'm like, I'm all like, I don't care about the amount of money. I just don't, I'm like, if I see something I want, I just want to get it. You know what I mean? I spent so much of my life not being able to do anything that there's also a certain amount of, I just want things that I want and I obsess over them. So now I'm like, well, I'll just, what can I sacrifice to get it? You know what I mean? I'll sell these three cameras. Then get this camera. Also, you know what I mean? So it's kind of like that same kind of mentality that, you know, it's not like, well, I'm like, oh, I'm just going to go buy whatever I want. Just put it on my credit card and let them do with it. Like, I don't care. I should be making enough money to do this. You know what I mean? It's like, I don't know, even, even some of my friends that are, I mean, multi-multi-millionaires. They're not throwing money out the window. There's people that just ball. You know what I mean? Like, ball. And you're just like, oh, I'm not saying that, but like, you ever see ballers on HBO. It's like, you not only are supporting yourself, you're supporting your family, your friends, your second cousins. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I mean, that's, you know. And God bless them. You know what I mean? Like, would it be fun when they just be like, yeah, I'm going to do whatever I want with whom I've right want and just go. I think everyone would take that opportunity. Even just live it once. You know what? Kids follow. They see this, you know, going to clubs in New York. You see tables and people just just going nuts with bottles that you know, you can't afford, you know. So if you're standing there, like, yes, I'm at this table now. You're like, it's there. They go home, like, yo, just see this last night over a puppy's table dog. You know, day, dude. But then you're back to reality where you can't get in the next time. Yeah. You know what I mean? So it's kind of like, I don't know. I like the photographer that took all these homeless people. Took a picture of him homeless and then had them cleaned up, shaved, styled and revamped them for an article. But then just let him go back on the street and he was a hundred bucks. Thanks for doing it. And it's like, ah, is that really fair? Mm-hmm. You know, sad. It's sad. What an interesting thing. But isn't to me. I was like, it's just a reminder that they were once normal, beautiful people that something went wrong horribly. And now they're going to, you know, they're living on the street. And this is their life. And to me, it's like, oh, I don't know how I felt about it. Even though it was done very well and you know what I mean? Mm-hmm. And so it's also like, you know, if I had the choice, if someone said, you know, for ten years, you can spend as much as you want and do anything you want. After that, ten year day after, you're back to nothing. Or if they said, or we'll give you, you know, $500 a week for the rest of your life, I would take the $500 a week. No question asked. You know what I mean? Because when you have stability, which is another thing about this interview that's not exciting, is that stability you know, I know what I can do and I can't do. Ups and downs, people can live outside their means. And you can live outside your means probably for ten years sometimes. And then when it drops off, it's like you're really going back to nothing. So for me, it's like that constant reminder that in my business that happens every day is scary. I don't sleep at night, you know, so I have a family now. You know, but I think that also keeps me going. And it keeps me humble enough to where I do not think that I'm at a level where I don't do certain jobs and I'm should be doing all these, even though I'm doing all of them. You know, it's like when you're on the King's court, you don't go hang out with poor people. Because you're just at a level where like that's, that's below us darling. You know, like to me, I'm like, no, it's not. Well, that's it. The hot chicks are poor. I'm like, King's just as poor. I'm like, well, you know what I mean? Yeah. I'm going to go on my heart tells me to go. That's never made it in those days because I would've been like, no way, dude, I'm going down to the pub with a baguette and drink as much beer as I can with these dudes that are playing music and a sawdust floor, you know, live in life. Not figuring out what's solid for, to eat. You know what I mean? Although I would've loved great wine and food. You know what I mean? It's like, I love, I try to love the lifestyle that everyone leads. And sometimes a lot of times, especially when we travel, my assistants and I will all head out. We'll try to find local place, local bars, find an old man that's sitting there that you just can have a great conversation with and talk to. Then the next day, go to the dinner with a rock. And it's the same, just different. But I sign, you know, I'm on the same conversation. I want the same kind of thing, but in each, you know, that's the interesting thing about I get, what I get to do is I get to have a brief, you know, encounter with someone's life, even if it's for a shoot. And you get to know them in six hours. And you really, when you're getting intimate and shooting and all that, it's crazy how sometimes you're leaving, you feel like your friends with that person now, because you've had such an intimate thing. And that's, what a great thing. Also because I love that. Like I could see myself being a documentary filmmaker if I didn't do this. You know what I mean? I'd used to traveling the world and talking to people. Like what a great job. You know what? I would dig that. And I want to go to like, you know, the, I'd go to the craziest. You know what I mean? Like, I want to, I want to get into it. I don't want to, you know what I mean? Like, I want to go in the field and I want to, you know, I want to do things at a vocabotion and things that make me get goosebumps and chill my bones and like, wow. You know what I mean? Like that, that's exciting. And I kind of get that through photography a little bit. But this is the package. I get it to learn. Now it's all right. No worries. Nice package. I don't think. I don't know if any design for it. Thank you. Genius. Are you all right? Well, now that's fair. We could talk about that. That's, this is like one of my crazy goals. Because it's the ground up show. And I was like, who the hell has the best ground up story of all time? It's doing the rock Johnson. So it's been something like a fun challenge that I've been trying to like hatch with my guests. It's to figure out how to get the rock on Matt's podcast. There's a website. It's called get the rock on Matt's podcast.com. Have a been successful. Have a guy named return phone calls. You're the first person that's actually like met him and worked with the rock. As you know, he's like the busiest person on the planet. If you were to give me advice on how to do that. What do you think I would have to do? I mean, listen, he does stuff. If he's not working and doing a movie and even in the movie and working in between breaks that he should be resting or going over lines. He's doing something with children. He's doing, you know, like making people's dreams come true. It's like literally just like me. You just have to wait for your opportunity and keep reminding him you're out there. A website, Instagram, hit him up on Instagram, tag him and you know a bunch of stuff. He'll see it one day. And then he'll tell us people. Yeah. You know, because I really believe that this is the honest to God truth. He has a list that's longer than Santa's of let's make this happen. And I don't think he says no to anything. So the list just keeps getting longer. And he's jumping it down. Whether in his lifetime, he could do it or not. I think that he would definitely try to fulfill that. Yeah. I just think that out of anybody and this is the image that you see of him. You see of him is that he just like he really does give back. And he really does care. I don't expect anything. I kind of, there's like a weird maybe I'm just delusional at this point. But I'm like, it's going to happen. You have to believe that it's going to happen. Listen, that's absolutely one hundred percent. You have to believe it. Yeah. And and wish it to come true. Do you know what I mean? Because there'll be chances, you know, or things where you meet. Like I'll tell them. You know what I mean? And stuff, you know, where it's like, oh, that might be the catalyst. Yeah. So that's why I say. You don't know what little thing that you do is going to make a big difference in your life. But if you do it out of your heart and you keep, you know, wishing those things and helping someone. You might, I might shoot someone that is like, I want to be a big art director one day. And you know, and they're like, you know, do do do. And you do tell me with them. And you give them your heart. And you make sure they're not going to forget that. And when they all sudden 10 years later are the biggest art director in the world. And remembers you. And now they're hiring you. Who knew? Hmm. Do you know what I mean? Who knew? So you always got to, you know, be on your toes. And you got to treat everyone with respect. And it doesn't matter if it's not the biggest thing in the world you're going to do. And you're not excited about it. It's called work. You know what I mean? We all have to work. You know what I mean? So it's just got to keep that mentality. And it's, look at, that's how I became a photographer. You know what I mean? And then I met her Brits. And then I did this. And you know, but it was all the belief in that, you know, in my heart, I knew I wanted it. You know, and they always say if you do, if you put your mind to it. And you work hard enough. It'll happen. It's so cliche and true. But even he'll, you know, he'll say it. You know, it's, it's, well, a lot of, most of the most successful people in the world didn't start out glamorous. Apple. You know, it's like Steve Jobs. You know, it's like, he's in his garage. Literally. Come on. Like, and now he's apple. Mm-hmm. You know what? You mean, like, it's, you don't know what the future is. You can't predict it, right? You're going to control all the elements that will get you to it. You know what I mean? But you really have to, to believe in yourself. And you really have to. I believe the universe is alive and is inside every person. I really, really, really strongly believe that. I'm not trying to get weird or this and that, but I agree. I, I know for a fact when I was six, seven years old, sitting in, staring out my window, just thinking like, what, is this it? This is life, this sucks. Screw this. You know what I mean? There was nothing, life had nothing to offer me. Life was just sad. All the time. You know what I mean? I dreamed of better days. And I sit back now and I said, I remember those conversations having them in my head looking out the window. And every time that something good happens in my life, I remember that. And just, almost going mad. If, if I knew then, what I knew now. And because you could have never told that six year old boy, you're going to be fine. You're actually going to live in the country with animals. And you're going to have this beautiful wife and you're going to have children in your life. I've heard have been like, you're on crack and you can get it down the street, which is probably where you got it. So, no, I don't see that. How am I going to get out of here? And it's like, it happens. You know, it is, but that belief that I never let go of. And in the fact that once something good happened when I was a kid. And I was like, that I was addicted to that. Wow. Maybe it is going to happen. You know what I mean? Because I became a gymnast that way. You know what I mean? Because I was, you know, just getting in trouble, staying up to school. And I became good at something. And people were like, man, dude, you're sick. And then I was like, I was the first one in the ghetto that could do a runoff back answering back flip on the street. And people would go nuts. Do you know what I mean? So I had like a gift. Or like, if I want to impress someone, I would just stand there and do a back flip. And people were like, what the heck? Do that again? Do that again? You know, it was like, that was this like, man, man, that made me cool. I realized that if you, if you do something, you know what I mean? You can impress people like us on my whole channel. How can I impress people? What can I do? You know what I was telling a joke or, you know, being good at something or helping them with something. You know what I mean? I was addicted to praise because you never got it as a kid. And once I started getting it and you know, felt affection and new, oh, this is what love is, this is what affection is. This is, this is awesome. Or usually when you're a baby, you start learning that from your mother. You know what I mean? You start learning these things as you're neatly growing up. You get this affection and love and you know who is giving it to you. It took me a long time to understand what that meant. Because I'm like, yep, I don't get it. You know what I mean? And it's like, it's hard to explain to someone when it's so in you. You know what I mean? But when you don't have it, like I can understand when people say, I'm my heart and soul feels empty. I'm like, I know what you mean. I know what you mean. No you don't. I'm like, I do trust me. I can't explain it to you. I can't teach it. Just like you can't explain it to me. But look me in my eye and I will tell you, I know what you mean. So you know what I mean? Now I can start helping you. And you know, try to give you advice that help me. Take it or leave it. And it's going to stick with you or it's not. But at least I know I can offer it. You know what I mean? So that's what he does, I think, too. Yeah, he really does. He does. Yeah, he doesn't. You don't have to be a fan of his to respect him and go. The dude is a superhero. He really is. And he just looked like one. But he's like literally one of the sweetest, you know, most kindest, hearted humans I've ever met. That can crush you. Yeah, he really can. That's the thing is like, like you said, you just look at what he does. He's the kind of person where you'd be like, well, he made it. He's done. Just what it's he do every day. He wakes up at 4 a.m. And toss his ass. Yeah. He's not stopping. And he's not like, yes, you know, it's like, DJ, here's what we're going to do. So I'm going to get you on this rock this and that. And the way he's going to come and you, you know, give me this big smile. And what, like, you're holding the world is like, no, we're not. What else you got? You're going to be smart. Yeah. Because I'm not going to that rock. You know what I mean? Like, oh, I get at the rock and the work. I'm not into it. What else you got? You know what I mean? So he's like, okay. What if you, you know what I mean? Yeah. But so he's, he's great about it. Yeah, I love that. Let's do that. You know what I mean? He's a hundred percent. Like he wants, he's like, look, we're going to do something. Let's make it count. And that's why it's like every time I worked with him, every time I do something with him, it's like, I know it's going to be amazing and great. And I know he's going to help me make that. Because he wants me to succeed. He literally is like, you know, if he asked me for a job, or pushes for me, he knows I want Brian to have this opportunity. I know he can do it. It's going to be great. And we're all going to get the benefits of it. But that's the way he thinks. And you know what I mean? And it's like, man, thank you. And I get you, man, dang. Thank you so much. You know what I mean? And he's great like that. But he's always thinking about you. What he does something. And I imagine as a director, that must be great. Because he's really just like, how can I make you shine? How can I do? You know, which is, you know, what would make an amazing actor? And what he's, you know, I love him. I think, you know, as movies, people, you know, your friends with the nose, and you're like, no, that's right. I am friends with him for a reason. Yeah. because I love that dude. And I respect him in my or everything he does. And he's a huge inspiration. And I go on his, you know, that's one person on Instagram that I search the rock, what did he do today? Mm-hmm. Inch it otherwise I'll scroll through like everything else. Yeah, he's the only person I've fallen Twitter right now. I see everything he does all the time. And I'm like shit, man. Like, especially now, because he's really seeing Jumanji and it's just crazy madness every day. Yeah, he just got the Hollywood star. Yeah. He believes in himself and he believes in what he does. And he, that's why he promotes it. Like he does, which I'm like, that's great. Yeah, that's not shameless self-promotion. That's like, go see what I've done. Go check out this movie with these great people. Mm-hmm. Do you know what I mean? It's always supposed to do. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? It's great. You can't be any more humble than he is. You can't. No. For how much he's achieved, and how much people idolize him and to still take the time and to have this kind of outlook on it. And to be genuine about it. Yeah. It's like that's the thing. There's not acting. You can't do it for that long. You can act. But you can't act like you care. Yeah. Someone knows. Someone who knows you will know. You know what I mean? And you can't save the world. You can't do everything. I think he's a great balance of all of it together. What can I do? Mm-hmm. And it's like, yeah. Be like the rock. Yeah. If the world was like that, I don't know. That's like the perfect world, I guess. Yeah. We wouldn't want it. It'd be like they're still good. Mm-hmm. Yeah. I'm over to Mars. Yeah. All right. You want to get to quick questions. Okay. Direct this podcast. Quick questions. You know, not necessarily quick answers, but you can expand on it if you want. Let's see here. Do you read much? No. These days. Has there been a book that's inspired you? Or maybe a movie? Or documentary? Something else. I don't read much. You know, unfortunately, I probably should read a lot. My favorite book is How Might Noons Autobiography. That's the only thing I've ever read twice. Mm-hmm. Movies. A favorite movie is not something I could say. It's like, what's your favorite food? Your favorite color. It's like, my life is filled with everything. Excuse me. Every single one of them. I love movies. That's why I'm so grateful to work with celebrities. I've always wanted to do that since I started with that. Because I respect and admire them so much. That I want to be able to shoot someone that I, you know, want to, that I idolize and that I'm like, wow. I still go home and go. I just can't believe I just shot Scorsesey. You know what I mean? I can't believe I just shot, you know, Peel about Thornton. You know, I've watched him so much. And he's quite a great, great actor. And to be able to be in the same room with him is, you know, everyone's dream that, that is fans of someone. So I, I try to go to the movies as much as possible. And I don't listen to what critics or, you know, I don't listen to what he says. I go to the movies that I am interested in, or the people that are in them. I go because they're in them. Sometimes I don't know nothing about them. You know, I just went and saw Lady Bird and I was blown away. And someone, you know, just, oh, that movie's great. Saw the trailer and I went. I was like, I'm so happy. I want to see that. And I'm addicted to popcorn. Oh, I mean, if you cannot do that. I don't understand how people can't get snacks or popcorn when they go to the movie. It makes me, you know, it makes me crazy. My girlfriend's just, like, just juice in that butter. Because then Australia, they don't do the butter. We do it. And I don't like to fake butter, but in general, like a theater in New York, it's like one of my favorite theaters. And I used to go in there and literally just buy popcorn and leave. Again, I'm just going to grab some popcorn and go out. The guy I'm looking at is hilarious. And I'm like, great. Walk on the streets in New York with popcorn. The best though. And these real butter. It's great. But I'm so, I don't really have a favorite. Yeah. What have you learned? Like, you were saying, you've worked with, like, all these public personalities. What have you learned about them as a people? That I learned that they're not. When you don't see it, if you never get the chance to meet a big star or have come face to face with them and listen to their voice, come out of their mouth and have them look you in the eye. I don't think you can get a sense of how real that person is. When you look at someone that's, like, so beautiful. You know, you're, like, Julianne Moore. And you're watching her in all these movies. And she's such a big star in your life. You just know what you see or hear on TV. You don't know who that person really is. You know what I mean? They could be very serious. You know, hi, nice to meet you. Oh, thank you very much. Well, um, you know, I'm glad to hear that. And thank you. It was really nice meeting you. You know, or like, hi. You know, oh, that's so sweet. How do you know, are they different, you know, they both show to respect and they both take time enough to look you at you again. Sometimes you're like, you know, you certain people blow your mind. Like, so like, like, like the rock, like you hear stories. You know, he obviously is very, you know, I was spoken on Instagram and Twitter and all that stuff. So you almost feel like you know him. You know what I mean? But there's a difference when you're looking right in his face and he does it. You feel things. Like, I, I've, I've got to see people who feel them or touch their hand or something that I get this, you know, their aura seeps into my body. I can, I can look at someone and know if they're evil by looking at him and talking with them. Not necessarily if I saw him in a film or I'm not a regular people too. Like, I'll meet someone and in two seconds I'll know, we'll never be friends. Mm-hmm. And something that, you know, it's a gift that I have. And I'll go that far as to say it's a talent. You know what I mean? I really am great at reading people. Well, that's got to be such a big part of what you do. And just like the communication and working with people and building comfort with somebody. Well, it's also, you know, you got to remember two. You're not there to be friends with them. Sometimes it ends up that, you know, you have a lot in common. You can start conversations. Sometimes it's like, you know, we've got to get this all down and a half hour. Let's get straight to business. Nice to meet you. Let's go. I'm like, great. Boom, boom, boom, boom. Thank you very much. See you later. Not, not that he's like, you know, that's not being a dick. That's being professional. That's being like, yeah, now he's going to six other, you know, six other shoots that day to just, you know, press junket. I'd want to be that way too. You know what I mean? And then you might see him in a bar six months later. Hey man, I think, man, that was, that was great meeting in that day, you know, like, cool. Or they're just, you know, something business. And you know, you got to remember you're not. I'm going to this business to make friends with celebrities. Although it's still great to have that moment. Man, I worked with him. That's an accomplishment. That's great. And I got a great photo of him, then I can sit back and look. My portfolio is basically my Bible or my diary. That, you know, I sit back and look at it and just come in. Look what have accomplished. This is amazing. And I have it here in front of me. You know, when I first did my first coffeeable book, I was like, this is everything. This is insane. You know what I mean? I was practically giving them away. Anyone that would want one. Take it. Don't worry about it. I got this. I want people to have that. You know, and just. That was one of the big goals in my life. And I made it happen more than once. So it's great. Let's see here. Can you tell that I have spirit. I just keep going off and tangent. Do you like legit? Well, how'd you get started? Well, when I went to this store one time and they had this great chicken. Yeah. Oh, so this is my favorite kind of conversations, though. Yeah. I just had Alexis Wilkinson from. She's a writer or a writer for Veep and Brooklyn 99. Just off the rails. Yeah. Everything about the conversation. It was going like 90 miles an hour. And I'm like, you know, like I like to have a resemblance of a story here, or at least good kind of have some bits and pieces that can help. You can see people at home going, he never answered the question. Yeah, yeah. That's actually the best advice I ever got was from my friend Josh. She was in a documentary, minimalism that we made. And he said, I was doing like a BBC in the way. Loved. Oh, thanks, man. I appreciate that. Loved. Yeah. So when we put it out there, I had never really done any media or anything. I had like a little bit in high school. Actually, this is like a long. I'm not going to get into the whole story, but I made a parody rap video. Like when YouTube just came out 2006. And I got sued. My brother and I did for $7 million from the grocery store. AMP. Also known as super fresh. It was like kind of my first comment. Yeah, it was fucking nuts. I think I've talked about it once or twice on the podcast. That is awesome. Yeah, it was like the best way to start out. And to be like, all right, this is. It felt like that was going to be my life forever. It's like I'm literally leaving my dorm and I got reporters with cameras. My face, I'm like holy shit. At the same time, I couldn't really enjoy it because it was so stressful. Because we were getting sued for $7 million. Yeah. Maybe just a bit. Yeah, just a little bit. So yeah, it was like a parody rap video. Super corny and over the top. But it was fun. We ended up being on like CNN and American Morning live television. All stuff. It was such a trip. But then I was preparing for this BBC interview. And I'm like, what do I? How do I approach it? Like I've done this before. But Google it. Like can't say that. Can't say that. Okay. And Josh told me he's like, so if you're going to go into an interview like that, where you've only got five minutes or so. And you know, maybe it's a promoted movie. Maybe it's a promote, whatever. Maybe have like three points that you want to get across. And no matter what they ask. This is like what politicians don't. No matter what they ask. Just go back to this three points. Exactly. Exactly. Like so what's your favorite food? Well, when I got started. Yeah. We didn't have to start. I learned how to do it. That's a camera. Okay. But nobody usually because unless you're a politician unless it's like Anderson Cooper and it's like really they're a hard pressing interview where they're trying to get the truth out or trying to make somebody stumble for the most part. People are just like, let's just chat. Like whatever you talk about. Like, let's go there. Yeah. I'm feeling like if you're on a date and you ask someone a question and all they did was answer it, it'd be like, Jesus. Yeah. Oh my God. That'd be so boring. So what do you like to do? Yeah. Yeah. And dogs. I like dogs. Okay. And then you almost feel like you're interviewing. It's like, ah, one time. Then to getting the story, I guess it makes it more interesting. And then you really get to know the person. Yeah. Yeah. So maybe I'm smarter than I think. I think you are. Yeah. I don't think you can get something up. But alright, so let's just do two more questions. And then we can wrap up. So one thing to read watch or listen to before the listeners go to bed tonight. What would you recommend? What's going to inspire them? Read watch. Listen or do one thing. Yeah. Read. Do it wasn't there. But you could do it. You could throw in there as well. Oh, there's a good do. Out of that. Yeah. Um. I think. Listen. Listen to, you know, listen to what the universe is. Is where they're trying to guide you. Listen to people around you. Listen for what you don't want to do. More than what you do want to do. Mm-hmm. Listen for how do I prevent making mistakes. Whether it's in my relationship in my life. And what I'm going to have for breakfast. You know what I mean? Like, I found that if I look at things that could possibly go wrong, I can prevent them and help myself do more positive things in life. And if, you know, if you don't have a lot or you're struggling in this in that, try to do something that makes you feel good. Like I'm doing, we're doing a toy drive Friday. And I'm like, tell my, I'm like, you guys can bring one toy. And come and you watch how good you feel. And just do it though. Promise me you'll just do it. Do it. And there's some, there's some things. And here's what I say. It's you was like, you can go up to a total stranger and just say hello. Really, really, you know, extrovertedly. And maybe it gives someone a hug. You know, and you look like you needed a hug. Do you mind if I give you a hug? You'd be surprised how much that might stick with someone to go, wow. That was cool. That didn't cost any money. And all that cost was you having the balls to do it and picking the right person. You're going to mean, I'll do that a lot. You know, I did it last week in New York. It was just cool. You know, we were at this thing. And I was like, do you mind if I give you a hug? She goes, yeah, kind of I do. And I was like, cool. But I just wanted you to know that I wanted to because I think you're cool. The offer is out there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They literally hug everybody they mean. No, I know. Yeah. No, I'm a hugger too. I remember them saying that. Sorry, we're huggers. Yeah. You know, I don't think there's anything wrong with it. And there's an appropriate way to do it. And it's like, anyway, you ask. Someone could say no. I'm not, oh, I don't like to be touched. Okay, cool. You know, letting them know that you want it. It's like, it's just those little things that even when I watch it, I was like, man, that's just that's so me. You know, I do that all the time. I'm like, oh, you know. And a lot of people like, oh, I love hug. Oh, that was great. You know what I mean? It's like nothing wrong with it. Or just to, you know, be able to find out what wouldn't. How, you know, I think that life is so negative these days. And there's so much stress about the news and everything. And I'm like, I'm not going to talk politics or, you know, religion or anything like that. But I know one thing that is universal is treating people with respect. And everyone in life, whether you're poor, rich, sad, happy, just trying to make the world a better place and what you can do to do it. If you can summons the strength to at least try once a day to do something nice, you know, and listen to other people and trust other people and do it, I think either world would be a better place. You know what I mean? Is that sound stupid? I don't give a shit. But I literally, you know, sometimes I'll try to just do that. And I'll, I'll think about it too. And I'll think about what did that. I wonder what that person just thought of what I said or did. I wonder if they got it. You know what I mean? And sometimes you can tell like, I made that person today. And when I, when I know I did that, it just makes me feel so damn good. You know what I mean? Because people are dicks. They're never going to change. They're always going to be a dick. And they're going to die a dick. You know what I mean? And fuck them. To be honest? Fine. I move on because there's a lot of people in the world. There's a lot of, you know, people that don't understand me or don't. If I can make everyone understand me, I'd fucking run for president. Do you know what I mean? Because that's the key, isn't it? Hmm. So at least half the time. I don't work. But even if you're 20% on something like that, you're doing something good. Yeah. 10%. That's awesome. Great man. If people want to check out your work or connect it with the online. Where should we say that? At Bryan Bowen Smith on Instagram is kind of like my key. Go to him. A big Facebook guy. Twitter got too complicated. So I really just run at the Instagram and then I have an agency copious management. I think it's copiousmanagement.com. Then just click on my name and you find all my current work. And they also have copious management on Instagram. They're really good at posting all my new work. And I'll use all usually retreat from them. A repost on Instagram. Yeah. And then you know. But I'm literally like follow me on Instagram and you'll get a good dose. Before I am in what I do. Go on man. Thanks for doing this. Hey, thank you man. Appreciate it. Yeah, this is fun. All right. Bryan Bowen Smith is a legendary photographer. Photographer. How do you say? Photographer. Photographer. Photographer. Photographer. Photographer. Photographer. Photographer. Photographer. Photographer. Photographer. Right. Do you say quick? Photographer. Photographer. Hmm. Bryan Bowen Smith is a legendary photographer. I see. It's so hard. How do you say that word? I'm not going to be able to do it now. Bryan Bowen Smith is a legend. God damn it. I got it. Bryan Bowen Smith is a legendary photographer. Known for his celebrity portraits. Kill it, nailed it.
