# The Other Side of Burnout
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zHMfmcIWXT8
http://patreon.com/mattdavella
☝Support my channel & get exclusive videos.

Here’s what Jason is up to these days:
https://wanderingaimfully.com

Caleb Wojcik helped me film this interview:
https://calebwojcikfilms.com

Hi my name's Matt & I make videos on this channel every week about minimalism, lifestyle design & habits. Subscribe if you'd like to see more from me.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** burnout, hustle, work, work ethic, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, minimalism, simplicity, less, do less, film, filmmaking, documentary, burnout entrepreneur, burnout documentary, declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalist, simple living, behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, filmmaker, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, 
**Date:** 2019-02-19

## Transcript
 Burnout, when you've been grinding for so long that your life becomes a grind, it's more late nights, more caffeine, more energy drinks, more lunch at your desk and more weekends behind a computer. And it's less time at the gym, less healthy eating, and less moments to catch a breath. Whether you're being driven by ambition or your schedules being filled by someone else, burnout is the moment everything gives. And it's more common than you think. Everyone experiences burnout if they're doing the same thing constantly, especially if it's at an unreasonable schedule. Bro, I'm fully burnt out. Like, there's no wax left in the camera. I decided that I need to take a break from this channel. But it's this pressure that, like, I can't let go of this thing because the bottom could fall. In that effort to keep up, maybe come overwhelmed. And that sense of being overwhelmed manifests as as burnout. This isn't a video about the anti-hustle movement or manifesto against hard work. It's about knowing when to push yourself, when to slow down and creating boundaries that could change your work and your life. If you're passionate, driven, or even obsessed, that can be a very good thing. It can lead you to create something bigger than yourself, it can help you find meaning in your life, and you can even create something that's valuable and helps other people. But if you're not clear on exactly why you're doing something, if you hadn't set your intentions from the beginning, it can lead to some very big problems and things can get out of hand. That's exactly what happened with Jason Zook. Please sit down. That's just a natural. In 2009, Jason came up with one of those ideas that makes you think, this guy is either brilliant or totally insane. One day I found myself in my closet staring at all these shirts and I was like, wait a second, I'm wearing a Nike shirt, a polo shirt, a busted t-shirt, like all these different brands. And I paid, and now I'm walking around schlepping these brands for them, they're getting that free advertising. What if I turned that around and said I could wear a branded shirt and the company would pay me to do it? It turns out the idea was brilliant. Each day, Jason would wear a branded t-shirt and a company would pay him money. He charged $1 on the first day of the year and each day after that, the price increased by another dollar. Lifelock.com put the lock down on your social security number. I think it took about three months and I was working every single day talking to people, reaching out to people, emailing people, having some random phone calls of people and the internet that I didn't even know, but just to like get feedback on this idea. And eventually it was just this little small trickle up. You've already sold this idea for next year, a double the price, and 255 days have already been sold. Within a few years, he had made over a million dollars in revenue simply by wearing P-shirts. Except it wasn't that simple. And what looked like success on the outside was only a facade. I started to notice when it went from two to five people, it was a little too much. Because I was still showing up every day wearing shirts. I was answering all the emails, I was doing all the marketing, all the sales, keeping track of all the orders, now having five employees, and I had to keep up with everything. And I started to realize, wow, I was already working, like 12 and 14 hours a day, to manage all of this. I just like five X, my workload, somehow. Where's that time going to come from? And I worked longer. I worked harder. I did less things with friends. I skipped a good friend's wedding so that I could literally work on a Saturday because I had built this what I call a career dungeon around myself. And so you go from a nine to five where you feel like you're trapped and you can't get out of it. But now I was working like seven to midnight almost and just never had a break. And that to me, right around 2011, when that shifted to five people, it just became, I knew it was going to be unsustainable. But I just was like, you're kind of like that duck floating on the pond, right? Everything from the outside looks great. You're calm, you're smooth, but in the water, it's just like crazy keeping you afloat and that's how I felt. The business to generate over 1.2 million in revenue, but I was a hundred thousand dollars in debt, 50 pounds overweight, had to fire a bunch of employees that opted into my weird idea. And it just got to a certain point where I just broke. I think I just physically and mentally was like, I can't do this anymore. I can't flip on the camera. I don't have the energy. I don't feel like it. I'm not creative anymore. And I just have to stop. There's a lot we can learn from Jason's story. First, is that hard work is necessary to get any meaningful project off the ground. But it's not the hard work that got Jason into trouble. It was his mentality that he needed to keep the same pace up forever. When you're starting a project, you need to have the sprint mindset. Every business has a limited runway before they burn through all their cash. But contracts and film festivals have deadlines. The constraints of time and money force you to work extra hard. But that sprint should only be temporary. If you're always up against the deadline, always working weekends, never feel like you have enough time for your health or your relationships, you're either stuck in a shitty job that you need to get out of, or you have your priorities misaligned. Yeah, I don't think I ever asked myself, what do I want my life to look like? All I asked myself was, how can I succeed in this business? And so the two never really meshed together. It was just they were separate entities. And I figured, once the business was successful enough, I would then have all the time in the world to live a good life. And it's not how it works. Because the more success of business has, almost always the more problems it has, the more time it needs, the more people are involved, it have to be managed. And so what I realized was, I'm not prioritizing life at all. I wasn't sleeping at all. My diet was basically Chick-fil-A and Diet Coke, which is like, not a great diet. It sounds delicious, but not a great diet. And I just knew that at some point there was going to be a breaking point. And I had built the system for myself that was not sustainable to every single day, show up, and have to do work, and never get a break. And the next thing we can learn from Jason's story is about how to manage our time when we aren't sprinting. Sprints are times when we need to make an additional sacrifice. We might work more nights or skip some workouts. But once we reach a very clear and defined destination, we need to create rules that help us shift our priorities. Here are some to consider. Shut down your computer no later than 6pm every day. Never bring your work laptop home, delete email from your personal phone. No work on Saturdays. No screens in bed. No email before 9am. You can probably come up with some rules that better fit your life, but you should treat these rules seriously because it's very easy to slip back into our old patterns. I wish it was as easy to say we are anti-hustle, but that's just simply not true because I think both of us are in the same boat where we put a tremendous amount of work and energy into the things that we really care about and the things that we want to bring to life. And sometimes in the very early stages we have to work much harder than we do after we get it to launch. But how do we then work or hustle with intention? Yeah, I think you know this well is that you have to go to the edges. And each person has their own edge, their own boundary, their own kind of line in the sand that they draw. And so for me, I think I had to do what I did with the R-rear shirt business. I had to work every single day, trying to grow that business. So that I could learn this is too far. I need to take a huge step back, but now I know where the line is. And I don't ever want to butt up against that line ever again. And I think you know this as well is like you could have all of the work, all of the clients, all of the projects, but to what end. There's always more of that to get. There's always more of that to do. It takes discipline to do less, to set boundaries, to know when to ease off the gas and create rules for yourself. It's messy, you'll make mistakes, but the fastest way to burn out is thinking you'll solve all your problems by doing more. If you're wondering, Jason now runs a business with his wife called Wondering Aimfully, built on the idea that you should work to live and not the other way around. If you want to support this ad free channel and get access to exclusive videos, put a patreon.com slash mat deavella. For $12 a month, get access to videos on minimalism, lifestyle design, and personal vlogs where I talk about my life and business. I also share all of the extended interviews that I conduct for this channel, like my one with Jason. How has your hustle changed from very beginning? No subscribers, no viewers, no one cares, and no one cared Matt. If you want to get all that content and more every month, go to patreon.com slash mat deavella. Even if you want to try it out just for a month, it would mean a lot to me. Thanks for your support, and I'll see you next time. you
