# I Risked Everything w/ Rich Roll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zhR833_fEMs
http://www.groundupshow.com

Rich Roll talks about going through some of the most financially difficult times of his life. See how he got through it. There's no get RICH quick scheme here. Okay that's the worst pun I've ever made in my life. No one reads these things anyway right?

More from Rich:  http://www.richroll.com
**Keywords:** ground up, podcast, filmmaking, rich roll, finding ultra, vegan, fitness, rich roll podcast, minimalism, documentary, matt davella, money, finance, 
**Date:** 2017-11-12

## Transcript
 I risked everything. The leap of faith gets thrown around very carefully, but it was, I was like, I'm not practicing lawn anymore. I have no idea where my next paycheck is going to come for, I don't know how that's going to work at all. I knew myself well enough, and I knew the feedback that I was getting from the book was potent enough to say, there is something here. If I fully devote myself to figuring this out, I will figure it out, and I don't know what that's going to look like. It was, we went through some very difficult financial times, and we almost lost our house. Like, I risked everything, and I put up tremendous amount of strain on my family. My wife always had my back, she was like, you're not going back to being a lawyer. Like, this is what you have to do. Like, you just have to stay the course, and without that support, I'd never would have been able to do it, but it was really just showing up every day, trying to pay attention. What can I do? And it was being in, it was just being in service. What can I offer? Well, I'll write this blog post, or I'll go give this talk, or I'll go do this, none of which I was getting paid for. The podcast I began, I did it for two years before I made a single dollar on it. Like, I just did it because it just seemed like a way to continue the conversation that my book began. I didn't start it as a thinking it was going to be some kind of professional enterprise, which is something I felt strongly about. I felt called to do. And I think the lesson that I've learned as a result of that is that if you've done the internal work to really know yourself and what you're passionate about, and you can, if you can have the courage and the faith to step into that, that indeed the universe will conspire to support you, and you will find your way, and it doesn't mean that it's going to work out the way that you want it to work out, or think that it's going to work out, and your timeline is not going to be the timeline that, you know, that's going to play out, but my experience is that by, by remaining steadfast, that that is how I was able to see it through and be able to sit here and talk to you today.
