# Taking Minimalism Too Far // Ground Up 072
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zKhf1xaVFhI
This is Kraig: http://youtube.com/kraigadams

Kraig Adams makes videos about minimalism, creativity & travel on his YouTube Channel. On this episode we talk about when minimalism goes too far, how to avoid clickbait and sensational content, being original  & how to simplify the role of social media in your life.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-08-08

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the ground up show. My name is Matt Diavella and this is episode 72 You might recognize my guest today from his YouTube channel where he talks about minimalism filmmaking creativity as well as travel and much much more It's Craig Adams on the podcast. We talk about when minimalism goes too far How do I avoid click bait and sensational content being original and how to simplify the role Social media in your life This is Craig Adams You're doing you're doing the one-man ban here. It's the one-man ban. Yeah. Is that how you started out? Yeah, I think we all started out. I started with weddings and that was definitely one-man ban Yeah, yeah, I always wanted people to help out. I didn't know any other filmmakers until I got to college You know, it was always just friends who wanted to be in my movies. Was it you just started out making like weird weird little videos? Yeah, yeah, I've I've had this conversation as it's always funny how similar the paths to being a filmmaker begin Like making little jackass sketches and like just trying to be funny with video because I feel like I don't know it's easy to see the zombies or like skits When it's starting out like comedy comedy or like over the top a post-apocalyptic drama is for some reason Yeah, and then you have the the skateboard videos as well the skateboarders have their own niche Yes of GoPro style videos, but it's yeah That was me too. It was definitely sketch comedy was the very beginning was well I guess even before then it was making like horror slasher films that like nobody ever saw it's like shot on my parents VHS tape But yeah, it was definitely just trying to make your friends laugh and do goofy shit I wish I had that stuff. Do you still have it? I've lost a lot of it I have a full proof like 100% I have everything saved in some way Ever since the beginning of 2017, but everything before that is a who knows and I've got some of it Some of it's not there, but 2017 that's so that's Pretty recent since last year. You've like really started to be methodical about capturing and I'm saying like every photo of ever taken every Receipt from anything I've ever bought like every piece of data I manipulate or create like I have saved in some way that's accessible and I could find via date That's gonna be either really good for you or really bad for you ever kill somebody Yeah, the data trails there you just got a you got a decrypt yeah Some stuff yeah, hopefully apple has my back there. Yeah, there's some some weird shit It's gonna come up. Well, thank you for doing this podcast. This has been much Requested a lot of people have been asking a lot of people have been trying to make this happen because not very often Do you have Two minimalist filmmakers with podcasts? We weren't sure what was gonna happen when you got this much minimalism in two one room. Yeah, like it was I actually was gonna Have a sword in the middle of the table and then we would just have to fight over it and fight to the death We we should have like some kind of elaborate mirrors set up so that like at different points in the podcast like I'm We switched seeds or something like the people even notice Yeah, we should just do that half way through the podcast. I'm just gonna I'm gonna mimic every single thing Yeah, I'm gonna be like overly like I'm gonna be thinking about the next question I should be asking, but really you're gonna be the one asking the question because of course We are the same person this yes, yeah, I just I need to be more like muscular Very you're very built we'll go go to the gym after this. Yes, we'll get a minimalist workout So yeah, what do you want to talk about on this podcast? What are your expectations coming into it? I would love to talk about minimalism and almost like the the sides of Minimalism that people don't talk about what my expectations were moving forward with everything that I was doing by getting rid of things and then everything else that fell Away after that once you get rid of things you have to find other things to get rid of and I think like It might out also be like a problem with me like I feel Like I'm getting rid of almost too many things and obsessing over it and There will never be an end to the amount of control like an exercise over the things in my life So like I don't know if that's something you felt like the darker side of obsession over control It's it's control like for me at least getting rid of things so that I know exactly what I can manipulate in my life and Just less things to worry about and I have complete control over the small amount of things I Thought that very thing when I was making minimalism and talking with a lot of people because A lot of the people that we had interviewed a lot of the people that connected with minimalism were people that At one point didn't have any control over their lives whether they grew up in really shitty circumstances or they just had pursued this path By getting swept up into the kind of corporate nine to five world climb in the ladder or trying to go after success anyway They could I kind of had that suspicion and was like is this kind of just the opposite of hoarding where it's like there's OCD tendencies of hoarders Where everything needs to be exactly as they are and I was like people that are inclined to be minimalism Maybe are they also Falling prey to like OCD and I actually asked that to gale stick at it. Who is She wrote she's written a couple of books on over consumption and hoarders Actually, I don't know if she's actually written over consumption, but she's written it on like hoarding and accumulating a bunch of shit and OCD and I would ask her that question and she didn't think that there was much of a link like at least scientifically at least with actual OCD as it's prescribed to people But I still think that there's something there. There's something with control and holding on to it that is a real struggle for people who Are attracted to minimalism because most people just No minimalism as getting rid of things physical things in the apartment close whatever But it is completely stretched out to every aspect of my life even to relationships projects. I take Even types of media that I consume and watch like It kind of revolves around this idea of like Buddhism I guess and I don't know if you've talked about that on the show But this idea of not wanting more and being happy with what you have is like the key to happiness Right am I doing Buddhism one on one right there. I think oh, maybe at least I think how it should be practiced, but Yeah, it's funny because there is this quote asharaoth that I don't know if you know asharaoth the from I love college The rapper yeah He said that one at the end of his songs was a Happiness isn't about getting what you want all the time. It's about loving what you have and that really resonated with me And I was like it was at a time when I like needed to hear that because I was kind of tipping into the That lifestyle culture of like I don't you know sneaker heads and like all all these friends and people that I knew had like 20 30 pairs of sneakers. That's where you're gone. Yeah, and I was I was going down that road I had I feel like maybe 15 20 pairs of sneakers and Too many sneakers. Hey to many sneakers, but then you think about and there's people that have hundreds of pairs of sneakers and shoes And then you think about people that don't have any shoes and you're like how wasteful is this and how it's just Completely normal for people that have that much and I get it and I think that like yeah, everybody should you know Decide for themselves how much is enough But I think we can still point at people and be like you got too much stuff, right? Like yeah It's easy to compare it to ourselves, but it's like who's to say what is too much or too little? Yeah, it goes back to your video that was like calling out people who are trying to call you out and trying to put you in a box of like You're not a minimalist. You don't have these things or this thing, so Yeah, yeah, a lot of people want to tell you Which is I think a good part of minimalism is that it actually if I'm looking at like the silver lining is that it starts a conversation Oh, yeah, which is good And I think that's one of the reasons that minimalism the film did well is because there were a lot of people that watched it that were like no way Like these minimalists are crazy It kind of like the same thing you learned and then they start to think about why they had that response That's the key to change like and like self reflection on your responses and your reactions Because sometimes your reaction just comes out of nowhere and you have to have that reaction But if you can stop and like analyze why that happened That's where the change comes from and that's exciting Yeah, because I think that's where it starts for most people is to be like no way I could never do that but really what they're saying is like let's talk about this. This is interesting I think for me what's helped is having a girlfriend that is not minimalist at all It makes you take yourself a little bit less serious than you should, you know We get a little bit too particular where if we're spending too much time worrying about things and Only having the right amount of things then we're actually like failing to live up to what minimalism should be about Yeah, yeah, India my girlfriend similar We we try to have that communication and and I I hope that she feels like she can kind of Tell me if it's being a little too much But outside you coming up on two years longest relationship I've ever had and it has opened my eyes to the value of Commitment so much and and I hope that you have that same, you know feeling but I didn't realize how much you could get out of a serious relationship because Being a minimalist you sort of like open yourself up to all these possibilities of doing whatever Especially as a freelance filmmaker or youtuber like I could pack up and go to Thailand tomorrow But with all these options it's kind of limiting so in a similar way Committing to one person and then growing that relationship over time like long-term is Amazing like I'm realizing things about myself and it's it's all exciting and all new Yeah, it definitely teaches you a lot about patients Which I think is hugely important and that's something that crosses over to my independent like creator mode as well Where we want to do everything all at once right now and like we want to be You know where we're probably gonna be in five years right now But then knowing that all right, I just need to like relax a little bit enjoy this process and that's even like you know being in relationship is Making time on the weekends to actually hang out and do stuff for fun from my life And not exactly for achieving something or going after something. So that's a feeling that I Struggle with a lot this this idea of let's hurry as fast as we can to change and grow Sometimes you can force growth too much I feel like this year has been a very volatile year of growth good things but maybe too much sometimes and I don't and I'm trying to read and change and I think the girlfriend is like a voice of reason to pull back sometimes Yeah, yeah, well you can definitely see where Growing too fast can negatively impact people especially if they're not ready for it if you look at like Anybody who's very young that gets a massive audience It definitely does things to you and changes the the person that you would be because then All of a sudden everybody sorts treating you differently everybody wants to Be connected to associated with you. You kind of build this bubble around you where You know if you're just a regular dude or girl who's coming up and trying to make it as a film maker Nobody knows who you are you I think going through those struggles is Very important for you to learn about like humility and self respect and and treating other people with with dignity Because not all that stuff is It's gonna happen if you if everybody's just trying to hang out with you and be with you If if a relationship starts to turn sour with someone just cutting the cord and running away Is such a dangerous poisonous thing but I've done in the past and I've you know paid for So this idea of like the I say it's all Amazon it's all Amazon Prime like the two-day shipping like that is The cornerstone of I need it now. I want change quick. I want all the good things like as soon as possible Like it's this mentality of now now now and a lot of the past couple of months has me Analyzing that thinking about it and trying to slow down a little bit Do you place constraints on yourself in terms of those kind of purchases or that the way that you interact with with new things that you bring into your life? Yeah, I think it would be a lot healthier for me to at least try and just see how it works if I don't have Amazon Prime If I stop buying stuff online if I have to walk to the store to get stuff like There's a definite balance between the convenience of say groceries delivered to you Versus like actually going out and touching the fruit and vegetables and thinking about what you want to make and That trickles out into every aspect of my life like If I want to read a book go to a bookstore by a read it in person instead of just listening to it on Audible I don't it's just sometimes it's good to be able to slow down and not have things immediately I think yeah, completely. I do that with books as well where I'm like it's not Especially with books where it's just you can literally just download a book to your phone or download a book to your Kindle in one second And you lose a little bit of connection of what it takes to actually write a book like I feel like when you hold a book in your hands And you have to flip through the pages and like it's it's almost more of a sense of accomplishment for me when I finish a physical book and you turn to the last page Versus reading it on a Kindle and I think all this those kinds of things Help us slow down a little bit help us to appreciate the moment because if we keep just rushing to get to the next thing Or just get through this book or just get through this job or this interview You're not actually taking time to appreciate and enjoy the experience in the moment So is it natural for a minimalist to start to move towards meditation and that idea? Is that cliche or does it make sense? Have you ever experimented with that with meditation? Yeah, yes, I think I actually I learned about meditation before I you know minimalism was a thing Minimalism kind of became popular in around 2008 to 10 That's when like the blogs took off and it really got big when I was in college I read the power of now by a cartole and That was my first kind of step into the world of meditation and I was in atheist at the time I still am but that got me to open up a little bit in terms of Meditating and spirituality and and the present moment like you know I mean it's one of those things where some people come to it on their own and they realize these things But for me it was that book that was like, oh, this is pretty cool like yeah You know, I am just caught up in my head all the time. I am always thinking I'm stressed out I'm thinking I'm anxious about something that's gonna happen in the future or I'm regretting something that happened in the past and it's just these negative thoughts that would cycle back and forth And then when I realized like in the moment there's actually none of those things are really happening to me There's no real threat to my life For the most part maybe living in the city. It's a little different. You know you're going home late at night But for the most part like I was safe. I was protected. I had everything that I needed So that came to me before minimalism. How about you? Just going back to that aha moment like aren't those wonderful though like oh, yeah They're usually books podcast whatever sometimes like chats with mentors, etc. like oh that those are like the life to funny moments and I like thinking about it. I'm I'm almost trying to Force those upon my subscribers as much as possible. You know you can't like write a book and just have everything in line for someone to do is They're growing up but like you kind of wish you could make videos to send to yourself like a year ago and it's almost like that's kind of like An idea for my education to like educate younger Craig, but to my subscribers, right? Hmm, I think that's such a good way to look at him is to To think about where you are at those those specific times and I think that's where because sometimes when I put out a video I'm very like astonished with the response if you oh my god, this is like this really resonator connected with me And for me, it's not necessarily something new, but you was perspective. Yeah, you realize that To step out of your perspective sometimes it's so difficult Mm-hmm, and it to realize what the value is to people who don't think like you are right like yeah That's actually Leo but Bouta he was one of my biggest inspirations early on. He writes for a blog called Zenhabits.net And also I think it's minimalist.com without any valves But he was like the first person I started opening my eyes up to the minimalism and these kinds of ideas and I was like like this guy Just so profound and we got to interview him and that was one thing they said he said when he writes He thinks about Leo from five years ago or seven years ago when he was Over-way addicted to cigarettes was working a corporate nine to five job and this is where I think having Struggle in your life having these times when you're actually feeling down and and maybe at your worst Help you because then you're able to understand other people's pain a little bit more Yeah, deep We hop right into the deep shit. Yeah, yeah, of course we're gonna talk about minimalism and all these things, but You we talk about social media too really are you getting tired of talking about social media? You know, there's there's a give-and-take where I don't think You know some people may get bored of it, but at the same time I'm like if you hear about it once a week And that's it. It's really not that much. It's so it's such a part of our lives though As much as we hate on it. It's important. It's it's a it's a thing And we're gonna talk about my social media right now. Yeah, I've been trying to pair it down to make it as simple as possible So that I don't have to talk about it Does that make sense? A little bit so yeah, because then it basically if you're talking about how you use social media If it's incredibly simple and then you know, that's it Are you familiar with the theory of everything like the idea that the universe can be explained in a simple equation? I am now. Yeah, no, I have I have heard of it. Yeah, I like it's fascinating to me and I think it's like a code or mindset And kind of engineer in a sense like trying to make things work as elegantly as as possible But I see minimalism or social media as the same thing like I want it to be like I feel like in a perfect world. I would just have a single Platform that I would just post on and that would be it like I don't have to talk about it I don't have to cross promote. I don't have Different audiences like I just have one audience because like we have one audience But it's fragmented into different platforms like some of the people who listen to your podcast Don't even know you have a YouTube channel like even if it's crazy like there are probably a couple people Or just don't even watch YouTube don't want to go on YouTube But if you could just have one audience Always consuming every second of everything you create like that's what we're going for, right? Yeah, I think that the the problem is I don't know if it can be that simple and if that's what you were going to Try to achieve if you were going to say I'm only going to create a YouTube channel and that's going to be the only place You could ever hear from your see from me In theory I love the simplicity of that to me. I'm like that's like that would that's So focused right and you're like you could probably grow that channel or like have such more A loyal connection with your audience and build more trust with that audience if you just had that one place to to feed all your energy into I think the downside of it is that maybe that's not the way the world works and maybe there is in a simple equation to explain everything Because if we did that same strategy with our personal finances Then people will be risking a lot if you put all your money in one basket if you said I'm only going to invest in this one thing And then it falls apart your stock and and run dissolves to nothing You know, what do you do in that situation so in the same way? I think that we have to diversify a little bit as creators in case my space Crumbles or face whatever it is you know like as cliche as that is There's a chance that these platforms could just tweak their algorithms and all of a sudden you can't reach your audience like you used I love the comparison of finance never thought about that even in the idea that you want to hedge Things like that can go wrong and yeah, having different platforms with fragmented audiences a good way to diversify that You're it gives me some new thoughts. I've never compared social media to finance, but it does not be new for my audience Oh, you're very dark. Yeah, just a couple times two or three times, but um, I I do believe that that's the way that you have to take it especially for people that are on YouTube Because I know like you hear it all the time you hear a lot of big YouTube has even been talking about how challenging it is to make a living on YouTube and I think it's because a lot of them just talk about They just see themselves as YouTubers where if you saw yourself as a business owner or if you took a step back and you're like All right, how can I actually you know, maybe create products or create a brand whatever that I could That's a little bit bigger than just making money through advertising or affiliate links Everything's a spectrum, but I feel like it's important to kind of always have some kind of goal to attain to This is even going back to like always wanting more like never being happy But I think that's part of the the the journey or it's part of that for the process, right? It's like we have to Continually keep ourselves in check and when I even think about clickbait, you know That's something is very pervasive on YouTube I really think the only way to avoid clickbait is to just think really hard about the the the titles that you're giving your posts and really Questioning yourself and you think is this clickbait and my being disingenuous and I actually delivering on the value of the thumbnail and the title Sometimes we get it wrong. Yeah, I think We can't just like make it a binary yes or no is this clickbait or not Everything in a sense has clickbait. It's just Because if the content was just there by itself There would be no way to mask it like people would see what it is and then they would understand the promise of what they're about to consume But the problem is it's a funnel like people can't decide what to watch by watching it Otherwise it's the purpose to watch so it has to be trimmed down into a single image Which is kind of crazy for video like I know Google has been moving towards like the what is it like if you hover Over a thumbnail on Google Chrome it plays But it's it's fascinating because like people need to decide what to watch in Millisecond and it it makes it so that you have to convince and trick people which is said Well, I think that the you don't have to yeah, the key word there is trick and I don't think you have to trick people if you're if you're creative enough Yeah, and if you are tricking people you're probably not going to build the best connection with your audience So so establishing that promise Past the thumbnail is what's important and that's for subscribers, but when I think clickbait I think people who are not subscribers who are deciding to click on something just because they saw the image Whereas if a subscriber knows what to expect from a Craig Adams video like the thumbnail is in going to affect them as much as someone who's never seen my content So it's like I don't know I I Think about clickbait the more I see it in standard television like movie posters like it's just it's kind of everywhere It's everything right. Yeah. Yeah. I think it actually took like The whole Buzzfeed and the the the cliche clickbait titles for us to realize what it was But it's it's nothing new and I love the way that you kind of framed it as like You have to find a way to convince somebody to watch your video And you have to do that in a title in a thumbnail. There's no way around that at this point I would say every form of content has to be Simplified in some way for quick discovery blog with a title Instagram will Instagram is pretty good. It's just the image I mean we want people to watch our shit We want people to consume the content that we're creating because we think it will help people or entertain people or it will add Value to people's lives. We you know we don't need millions of subscribers or followers and I think that obviously you can get to a point where like just like having enough money You should be able to I feel like oh I have enough subscribers I don't need to get more this audience. I've got enough right now though like we like either of us could just go off and Live simple lives yet we continue on because there's something else we're looking for like you know like Yeah, it's fun. I don't know. I really I love it. Like I love the process um of Coming up with creative ideas or things that might resonate with people or I don't know it's it's it's really hard to describe Like what drives you and what makes you keep creating new shit. Yeah, so to summarize all of this the idea of being happy with what you have Seems like what I need to be doing but it's Nearing possible. It's really hard And it's something that you kind of work towards every single day and you can't Attain which is like the idea like you're always working towards something and just you you Ah, you know You never get your media social media bro. Uh, no. Yeah, I don't know if you actually describe it But what's your what's your current views of social media and how do you use it? Yeah, I going back to the idea of the equation like I would love to just have one single place where I post my content and I paint a very authentic true honest Like promise to my subscribers if you watch this stuff or follow me This is what's gonna happen. Uh, I follow through with that to uh, you know Absolute perfection and Who whoever wants to follow down that path like you know the the doors right there they they chose to enter so Whether that's YouTube whether that's Twitter like it's all the same. It's all an email list in different clothing Promise and an execution So I'm just trying to like get rid of things until I kind of find a good groove But hey, like I'm not even a filmmaker by heart like I could do whatever people ask me what I want to do I just want to Authentically express myself I just want to share what I want to share and be honest with it. How do we remove any facade any fakeness With podcasting it's it's it's pretty It's easier because there's only so long you can fake in a long form conversation, you know You would just kill yourself if you were just being this you know Have sometimes people like go on TV and put this like like this fake personality Both newscasters and if you're being interviewed you tend to just have this very energetic personable State of being but then when you're on a podcast you're like you just have to let that shit go and just Some people have a character that they can even put on during podcasts it goes back to that promise and execution again like Do I promise to be the real Craig Adams on camera for this episode like you don't know like If I make that promise and if people think that I'm in genuous and putting on some kind of show like you know They're not gonna be happy. They're not gonna want to follow through that continue that path How does that show up in in your work that you create in terms of being authentic like oh? Yeah, has it always been there for you? Yeah, that that comes out of weird intersection with inspiration because we copy what we see and it's easier to do What we know has already been successful then to take a risk with something brand new and original I've logged like Casey, you know, I'm I'm influenced by my New York City friends I watch PewDiePie and stuff like that so like some of my jokes are the same as his and it's just like you know So that's also been another avenue up and fascinated with like what would happen if I just didn't watch anything like what Inspiration can I pull from non-youtube non-TV non-movie whatever Wouldn't it come from somewhere this kind of goes to the almost discussion of free will which I don't want to get into But it's like we are so I can't like I'll hear Sam Harris talking about free will and I'm like I get it, but I don't at the same time. I don't get it dude But I understand the fact that we have so many influences on our lives and we have so little control Of a lot of what comes into our life the people we bump into on the street the messages that we get We do have control of our social media fees and whatnot But is that a bad thing to be influenced and inspired by other people? No the problem is when you you copy because it's safe If you can watch everyone and be friends and and consume everything but then also not be afraid to share What you genuinely want to share that's that's it, you know, that's what we're going for but The reason people are so afraid to like public speak it's like looking stupid in front of other people and like acting like you don't know what you're talking about or doing If I can absorb a lot of content and then still be What I want to be that's that's what I'm looking for but it's really difficult. I think you hit on it with The fact that people especially when you're just starting out you kind of just want to take that safe route It's safe. You just want to do what's guaranteed to be successful because you know It's very scary. It's a scary thing to put yourself out there to do something that's Maybe not seen as legitimate by a lot of people your parents probably By some of your friends who have jobs like real jobs. I've never had a real job And in the beginning it's a little bit tough because people are like, well, what are you doing? And now it's becoming more more popular to like follow an Intraditional path to be a freelancer But still until you actually are doing well It's kind of tough to get through all the the kind of doubt and a little bit of the shade that some people will throw at you Yeah, and then there's a sense of security when it comes to you start to make a little bit of money Get a little bit of followers even though you're copying MKBHD and doing tech reviews of everything that you get a hold of You can copy Gary V. You can copy Casey and have some kind of success. It's just like what do you want like Do you want to go It all comes down to what you want like you can do something completely original and it's just more of a long-term thing Rather than short-term like as far as success whatever that means Right, it's like what what are you trying to get out of it? Yeah, what are you looking for and I'll based on someone else and not yourself. Yeah, I think a lot of people like the image They get a feeling when they watch a Gary Vayner truck video They get this jolt of inspiration and they think I want to do that because that's what it feels like to do that But I guarantee like if you follow Gary V around for a day One day you'd be like I don't want to do that like because the dude probably gets four hours of sleep a night He's just working nonstop. I don't think most people would actually want that life and I think people should generally think about like Is that what you want like do you actually want to work 18 to 20 hours a day? You know do you want to have a balanced life and even if you do get it most people aren't happy even then like I don't want to go there but celebrity suicides and just like everything that this idea of like being popular and famous and A celebrity is like the pinnacle of everything, but it's absolutely not so it's it's laughing a backfire I think people are starting to wake up. I love the the public's Trending interest in minimalism and Buddhism and just like actually caring about what they're consuming and I think I think we're kind of waking up a little bit in that regard like realizing that Famine fortune isn't the best but hey for a nice popular, so what's a matter? Yeah, no you see honestly like I Tom Shadeck was the one that got me first interested in thinking about minimalism He directed a lot of old Jim carry movies Ace winter pet detective or like a talk about Jim carry go and fold him carry Jim carry yeah Yeah, I think that they probably inspired each other quite a bit, but um But it was it was such a radical notion because yeah, you've heard about like some famous people that were depressed or whatever and you're just like oh That's just like a fluke like a chorus like most other famous people or rich people are happy and then seeing a guy like Tom Shadeck who God everything that he was supposed to have got everything he was supposed to want and then Take a step back move into this mansion be like wait a minute This is actually not what I want at all. This doesn't connect with me resonate with me And then getting rid of it all I was like what you could do that you could just get rid of your shit like you don't need Because it felt like just that was the factory setting that I was given was like you have to just accumulate and get all this stuff before You can get happy happy get happy and that's why I think a lot of people A lot of people are still running on that then to realize oh like Maybe I was kind of Avoiding the actual difficult questions that I should have been asking during that time. Yep. Yep. I'm terrified of getting to that point and You know we all have our fears. We all have our like what ifs and What I'm doing right now is kind of to prevent from getting to a point where I would be unhappy with fame and fortune and money So I think we're on the same page is that you know you don't want to be famous Would you would you want it? I don't want to be I don't want to just get those things for the sake of fame and fortune and money Because we we see it like people aren't happy even though they have the things so it's like what's the real Rue of happiness and it's it's people. It's friends and family relationships and Having you know being able to express what you want to share and You know what is happiness? Yeah and like even I mean being on YouTube there's that that potential Where you have a lot of people like Casey nice to at who can't go out in public without being yelled or screamed at and like people Running over to try to rip off a piece of their t-shirt That doesn't seem like a great world to live in right? It doesn't now and I've thought about that like As much as I love interacting with my community Would there ever be a point at which where I turn off the Instagram messages where I just Completely shut off to the point where What makes me happy is creating the content and just living the life that I want and like Hearing the feedback hearing the community engaging with the community is It starts to become a negative thing You do you think there might be a tipping point when you know where we were talking about in person like celebrity But even it just gets to be too much and and I even find myself like seeing that on Twitter like I'm just I'm kind of tired of just being always in the mix and hearing all of the opinions and I don't know and it's also balance of like pulling like you're your email list and asking for suggestions about what you want But then to what degree should you follow their suggestions Like is it better to just do what you want regardless of what they say? Yeah, I think that in terms of well you have some people too who Will say like now I know some people they don't interact with their audience They don't reply to every comment on YouTube, but I'm in the comments section I'm applying to everybody because you know me. That's who I am. I'm just a guy for the people and then I'm like But like yeah, I get it. No, I get it. That's that's amazing that that you're taking that time and energy to like But then for some of it. It's just to say that you can say that To be the guy that replies to every comment. Yes, but then there's also people like us who are like Where we can have these conversations though on the podcast and and that's part of our content that we're actually putting out there is like You have to be mindful of those things and if like your audience grows to a size where you get a hundred DMs After one post you can't go through and reply to every single person and still have time to create the content You want to create especially if you're setting the expectation that you will see it and answer, you know I could see that being like almost like a trap where I and that's one thing that I try to articulate where I'm like Hey, listen, I will try to reply to as many as I can but for me that usually means I dedicate a certain amount of time every day to do that whether it's 30 minutes or 40 minutes And then I have to stop at a certain point, right? But it all comes down to what you want and then having a clear path to that and not just bullshitting along the way I think it's better to have a plan until like stick to your values Honestly, I do see a point at which even though I built a community with wedding film school And I'm kind of replicating it with the Craig out in brand with a different audience I would rather just go on trips and shoot videos and talk to people and just share what I want and not be As much of a part of the community I guess even if that sounds weird and bad. I don't know Well, there's almost like a A false sense of community in some ways. Yeah, like they're there definitely is like if you have like forums and you can like create ways In which people can interact with each other or meet up, but at the same time like we can't pretend like that's Real community in person You know, I think there's a difference between an online community and then Trying to foster that same kind of Community that you would have with family and friends and I'll tell you though I don't know if you you must run out of patreon at all that is starting to become Well, you know someone in my situation Who is accessible to the public and sets the expectation that I can get back to you answer questions and help you and become a mentor in some regard online I'm using patreon to like reach out and monetize my time and attention and I feel like that's at the beginning of that the wrong slope Yeah, it's it seems short term make money to me right now I'm trying to think of the long term and the more I think about the long term of where That would go if I did it for two years straight hardcore It'd probably be the wrong path. So I'm thinking about it. I also went through the same thought as in person workshops And even courses and stuff like that like I think you know I try to think about where it would be two or three years from now if I dedicate all my time and attention to it Yeah, so what ways do you monetize your your content now? Yeah, mainly affiliate links which is Just happening whoever once I think it's beautiful But then again, I realize how little amount of money I'm making compared to the people on the other end So in a perfect world I'd have my own business repy my own product whatever that is right now. It's time and attention and knowledge But down the road it should be something else in a perfect world. I would just Invest in assets whether it's real estate stocks and then just share what I want and that money is just extra fluff I would love to not have to worry about making money with content. I think that's something I'm trying to work towards Yeah, the problem is when you're making content all the time Most of your time and energy goes into making content and it's not easy to monetize it like it's not easy to just say here Pay for these videos, you know, because people aren't willing to pay for a YouTube video They're only willing to sit through an ad They're not willing to you know pay for a podcast That's just the way that our economy has worked out for whatever reason so I could see it being very challenging you have to work a lot harder to be able to actually produce consistent content every week But then also be able to say oh, I also need to dedicate this time to making money You know what I mean? Yeah, we all do it. We do the ads for companies. We don't care about we've reproduct Sometimes like we we try to stay true to producing a hundred percent What I want to create but like you said we have to make money, but I think it's more important to focus on where I'm trying to head towards and That's definitely not worrying about money when it comes to the content I create who knows what's gonna be in five years It's gonna be like a Virtual reality shindig. Yeah, I'll just a little bubble around my head like hey, who wants to chat in my bubble? Yeah How do you feel about advertising? Do you have your videos are monetized? Yeah, yeah, I monetized. I think YouTube was cool for a little bit But I think the advertising models getting a little stale and there are a lot of competitors to the gates I think YouTube has only one thing going for right now, and that's Google search and That is going the way of Craigslist in the way that has been broken up. So when I want to shop for something I don't go to google.com. I go to Amazon type it in that search bar If I want to watch a video I go to YouTube which is Google but I still am segmenting up where I do my search And I think that's the first sign that like Google's definitely got some competition on send Right where it's it and And like we're talking about a lot of the things that we think are gonna stay the same forever Start to change and yeah, I do see a little bit of that. It's starting to be a little bit more siloed Honestly, I don't care like the more that you can take an audience to wherever you go the better like people care about the the number like how many followers do you have I don't care about that like how much of your audience will actually do what you say like that's more that's an More impressive metric to me. So even walking around LA talking to people People like I've had like three or four people legit to my face ask me how many YouTube subs do you have when they ask me what I do? I'm like really what this is such an LA thing like are you serious like asking the I think it's weird coming from New York at least I don't know yeah You should have I don't know maybe like a some kind of sign that's that has the number on it And then you just hit them with it dude. If you're talking to me for the first time. Let's not do that Yeah, let's have a genuine at least 10 seconds of conversation before we try to figure out what we can get from each other. Yeah, I think people For whatever reason we we're so attracted to like the number how big your subscribers are Are you an influences the thumbnail of the content like it's the quickest way people can get a sense of like what they're about to walk in where you are on the hierarchy too and like you'll be like well Somebody asked us recently like what would it take to be to collaborate with you on a video and I think like I think about that Sometimes and I would think about that early on when I didn't have an audience and I'm like how could I get somebody who has a big audience to come on my podcast because there's nothing in it for them But then when I got to that position when I had a decent amount of subscribers I was like It didn't change where I was like oh now I will only work with people that have X number of subscribers It was I won't only work with people that I respect I respect their work I am impressed by what they do maybe they do something that I couldn't do or something that I'm like oh wow I could learn something from them There are so many different ways in which I would also do I have the time to do it But like there are so many different reasons why I would collaborate with somebody and almost none of them have to do with like how large their audience is but even that goes back to the promise you made to your subscribers that you're only going to invite guests that are honest and Align with the values that you're trying to make with the show like As much as we don't say it everything is selfish I think Everything comes back to like what am I gonna get in some regard the more you you can get away from that and feel comfortable and safe Like with friends and families with not expecting something back the better the relationship But I still think there's no selfish act ever So there's no selfish act or selfless no selfless act. Yeah, maybe but I would say What I would actually enjoy the most what excites me the most about like doing a podcast and having audience is now I feel like I can actually help out a little bit like I mean I don't have like a huge audience but like feel like I can give back to In the past I felt like every time I had a guest on the show they were doing me a favor and like I still do I still believe that like they're like doing me you're doing me a solid to come on my show to spend time to hang out have a conversation We're creating a piece of content together But I still feel like now I can be like well, there's going to be people that listen to this I'll quote. I want to check out this guys YouTube channel or I want to read their book and Now I feel like it's more mutual and like well It's not completely selfless. I feel better about Kind of a mutual exchange talk about power dynamic Yeah, where I mean I you just you don't feel good when you feel like you're just always trying to get something from somebody Yeah, right? Yeah. Yeah, it's manipulation versus inspiration Which week I could I don't know yeah, no, yeah, right that's that's everything That's good leaders. That's good everything like it goes back to clickbait It's Authenticity it comes back to like satisfying that promise I just don't respect manipulators Hmm yeah, and I think Yeah, it goes into everything and it's like you don't want a person who's manipulating on your show or yeah You don't want to feel like a manipulator yourself, right? You don't want to use other people How does that influence your work like how what did you start to think about like kind of ethics and morals and the kind of person you want it to be And yeah, you wanted to create it's fascinating to step out of the perspective I am now and one year ago Completely different person I didn't care about these things. I was just going for the money like I wanted I was like oh, I just want 10,000 subs like that kind of stuff, but you you have those moments of realization those beautiful aha moments and I'm sure that in a year like the things that I worry about right now or going to see seem Even more selfish like like like you should just always realize that it's a it's a progression and we don't know what we're doing right now Yeah, that's one of the great things about having success or getting what you want is that you realize that It's not actually what you wanted or it's not what's gonna make you happy That success and happiness are two different things yeah Food is good though food makes me happy food's pretty pure food's always good food Let's talk about food. I want to say yeah, I like I I I I I I ate sushi for the first time when I was like 21 or 22 same I had a very sheltered up for me. Yep. Yeah, I had it was Pasta every day growing up butter and pasta. Oh, yeah catch up and pasta my my my family's I love garden Italian like they're not like real Italian same it's just a couple cultures like a couple generations removed from real Bullock nays but Once I got into food. I was like oh, that's what travels about two travels about food It's about what you see you see a cool mountain life is about food it is Honestly like it's it's maybe we should start a cooking show Like I when did you start getting an interesting food? I was the same pasta butter all that goodness I didn't know what organic men I didn't care about nutrition in college. I got a little fat I had avocado for the first time I had sushi for the first time in college and And like most things I just keep learning about it and me caring about it myself is what actually makes the change instead of like Going to college learning about nutrition or whatever um Yeah, it's just getting back to like what is going to make me the best version of me and it's fascinating Especially more that I do running and working out. I see how food affects me long term And I will do a better run and feel better and have a better workout if I have a good meal like a week or two before like It's interesting to test yourself and see the differences like you can feel a big Mac in your body sometimes like down the road Yeah, it stays with you. Yeah, it's like haunts your dreams. Yeah Have you always found it easy to build healthy habits? No, you know I I'm doing the neutral bullet thing. I think that that's fun. It has to be fun to like be a To change the habit, right? Hmm you got a blender. You do the blending thing, right? That's actually yeah and that when another thing about that is like When you when you purchase Something expensive like a Vitamix. I think it was five hundred dollar blender Got to use like three horsepower four horsepower. I Didn't have the money. I mean I had money, but like I wasn't like I was still in debt at the time It wasn't like I was doing really well And it was a lot of money for me to drop on a on a on a you know appliance But it got me to want to make it every day. I'm like I'm gonna invest in this And I'm gonna use this thing every week and even to this day. I make like anywhere from three to six smoothies a week A lot of greens that's how I get most of my good veggies and nutrition is it's just easier for me I don't know if it's fun. I don't I don't you have fun with your blender I I the well this is the first time I was buying groceries like yeah buying whole ingredients and just Understanding how that affected my body and just feeling good about the food I was eating It's it had a Profound positive impact in my life to know what I was eating and to have some kind of control over that I guess There are there are also like keystone habits like One or two habits that you can change in your life that will have a domino effect and ripple throughout other parts of your life For me it was exercise and going to the gym. It's like once I did that I was more likely to come home Feel better about myself eat a better diet Get to bed at the right time wake up early like it kind of and I think that's a lot of people are overwhelmed with with Habit change and changing their diet and like they get really inspired and motivated and they're I want to change everything about my life. I'm going to turn it around starting today and they just are focused in eight different directions at once But if you can actually focus on just one of those things a A lot of times it's going to have a ripple effect it goes back to changing too quickly You know sometimes you got to slow down to actually make that change and Make a new habit and stuff How do you feel about like people co-opting like brands Companies now that minimalism is like a part of culture and pop culture People actually using minimalism to sell shit Yeah Dude people are going to use everything to make money It goes back to that clickbait like what what brands? I'm trying to think of minimalism like watches and stuff like that like I know moment It's like fashion thing it's the aesthetic they're they're something the aesthetic but then using the lifestyle as kind of a trigger Yeah, yeah, we're we're going to get that regardless of with everything But it just makes the people who are authentic stand out a bit more I guess so it's just a part of the process. Yeah, I guess if people are Talking about it. It's not a bad thing you just have to know the difference between The fake version the knockoff version and the real thing which always isn't it's not so straightforward Sometimes especially if you're just learning about it for the first time. Yeah, also comparison like other people can do whatever they want Yeah, so I have a question yeah for the podcast. Are you thinking about going Eventually to an audience would that ever be a thing that you would live out? Yeah Yeah, life or in person because like that's kind of what the minimalist do you would it you mean that so like doing like in front of an audience or like actually just go to other people's houses. Yeah to what degree would we have 50 people watching this that would be cool you know having an audience period is a is a new thing for me online or in person I don't think I've yet to meet like a I know a listener in person at this point But it would be yeah, I mean I would definitely be interested in that I think that there's a balance and I think that Josh and Ryan from the minimalist like they have an amazing podcast and what they found is that They've done a ton of touring and like they'll have a different guest in each city But those episodes get kind of repetitive They're not as thought out as the ones that they do in the studio Therefore like they they did a poll they reached out and like it was something like 80 to 90% of people were like preferred the in studio Session versus like the live events So I then might say that it just needs to be in moderation it just needs to be a little bit Thoughtful and like oh, we'll do maybe a couple of live shows which could be fun. I like the idea of like Performing in front of an audience and having that energy there to balance back and forth I think I would like a better if it was more of not a theater not that I could fill out a theater But it was more of like like an intimate like small space where like you said you have 25 to 50 people Where it feels yeah, I mean imagine if like if my place was apartment was big enough But to have like a group of people come over. I feel like that would be pretty fun. Yeah a way to make the studio space like There were comparing which is better studio versus audience But just to have an audience for the studio like to be able to not have any kind of change to the podcast recording But then also add people to it is kind of the goal. Do you like that? Is that where you want to go with yours? Hey everyone has their own direction. I'm just curious about yours You know obviously there's ways to scale that and make more money and grow influence But like is there other reasons why are there other reasons why you'd want to go down that path? Like what are the benefits of adding in person feedback and any sense or you know It's just that's the the the most interesting thought to me. It's just like how would that actually change that dynamic of the show? I don't know if it would actually be a good thing in terms of the actual conversations that we have like this conversation Wouldn't feel as natural as comfortable if there was 50 people watching us. Yeah, you would almost like We're saying before like you've had to almost put on a persona because like you do have to change yourself subtly if you're actually trying to engage in an audience in person and I think one of the great things about podcasts is that You can have intimate conversations. You can also say things that could be edited out later if like you know for whatever reason I say something that maybe or you share something that you're like yeah, I'd rather it not be out there I think it gives the opportunity for people to let their guards down a little bit more I don't think I personally would I would maybe do a couple of them just for fun Maybe like certain milestones and stuff But I think their direction that I would head with it would be just to Eventually create a space in my home. I love working from home. I love being able to have the podcast at home But being able to almost create like a studio in my house where I could shoot videos and I could do podcasts But I don't see an audience playing a part in that. Yeah for me. Yeah, there's just it's also what other people have done before So that's why it's even an idea in my mind like even talking to a serodici in your city We've been talking about workshops and in person Experiences and why we would even go down that route. What's the benefit other than just more money? Yeah, it's weird Like we can talk about workshops too. I know you're thinking about doing a course But have you ever thought about doing like in person a workshop like yeah, and this I guess what I what I think about in that stuff It's more of like it's I am business-minded because I love I mean I grew a freelance business. It really didn't have anything to do with minimalism That was just a personal thing for me. And I really enjoyed that prospect and like I've never really been into like reading about Filmmaking and I've never been like a film junkie. I was always more into like Tim Ferriss and an entrepreneurial type books So I have thought about that and for me I would want to do If I wanted I would do like workshops in person But I would have it filmed and I would do it like really high quality. I would run out of beautiful space Have three filmmakers and audio engineer. I would have like I have like a kind of a vision of where this could go I'm starting out small which is like a really simple course that I'm building But then to do it like that and then even have like other people like you come to teach certain things and we could do breakaway sessions And then think about who you would have as the people that would be working on their craft Because then you could package that up and then it's not just an in-person workshop It's something that you could then turn into a course and sell that Or all of that could even just be Produced and online like the more that I've been starting to do in-person workshops and speak at events the more I've realized that I'm just much better at convincing people of things and teaching things When I can think plan script shoot at it deliver like but if I'm in person like hey Let's learn about this thing. I don't know what I'm doing because I'm not practiced in public speaking I'm not practiced in doing this real time in front of people So like what is to be gained from having all the people in person interacting so like those are the thoughts of my mind because I I'm sure I could do it and make more money but Could I have more of a reach and have more fun if I just shot it and edited and uploaded it for free on YouTube like let's to be gained I think visually how I would do it it would be I Don't know you I almost want to make a movie out of it, right and like For me having the reaction and and being able to communicate with people it almost feels like a documentary You can do like like performance Yeah, packing up your bag and heading over to the venue versus like just sitting down in front of your camera in your apartment It's like you're going somewhere you're creating an experience Which I think to me like it may not work for everybody but for me I'm kind of attracted to that idea. Yeah, because when I think about ways to make more money to scale To just do more stuff and like be able to even hire people to help like in person workshops Presentations and stuff like that is a direction to go but like I don't know it's just something about it Really messes with me so you don't like it my thought is why like because I've been to workshops and Seen speakers and it's tragic when you see like people falling asleep in the audience or like just I don't know it's it that messes with my mind But I want things to be fun so like what if I just did meetups for free like if people just like met up and we went rock climbing or hiking or we played golf For like I don't know just leave the education completely out of it because some of the best moments of Aha that I've had our in person conversations at dinner or just hanging out like drinking coffee It's not like I'm gonna sit down with my notes and learn this thing But that's me. I'm not a I don't learn from lecture So maybe I need to step out of that Because some people do learn from lecture and like being told what to do, right? You have to fit your own style Mangostree has the same thing where they are very thoughtful about how they Script and put a video together and they're like, you know, they don't love doing on camera stuff But they will from time to time but they'll make sure that they think it through Yeah, so twitch same thing performance in person workshops presentations It's just a different ball game and I think it's the natural progression for youtubers to try to do in person But I'm really thinking against it. We'll see. I don't know What advice do you give to people who are trying to build an audience on YouTube? Yeah, always be mindset that first hurdle is the originality I'd say that's the biggest thing that I try to preach not even to like just do original things like do somethings No one's ever seen but just be mindful of how much you're influenced and and are you taking risks? It goes back to like school like they don't teach you in school There's no like course for healthy risk taking but everything is risky like there's an element of risk to everything And you can even compare it to finance like you like everything has risk you just have to be able to Had you against that risk and understand how much of the risk it is and Yeah, you can't put all your chips into one basket because it's more risk than not And it's it's more risky to not take a chance to not do something different if you're just doing what everybody else is doing You're never gonna stand out 99% of the population just doing enough to go by like it's it's the fear of Of messing up and failing that is keeping everyone in line That didn't affect you or did did you have some of those doubts when you first got on YouTube? Yeah, I was a standard kid public school. I you know, I did all the wrong things but Luckily been able to step outside myself and upgrade and scale and have those aha moments Like I like we talked about five years from now. I'm gonna look back and be like wow, what an idiot Yeah, didn't know but that that actually means that you're growing It means that you know and that's what I continually do like every two years you look back and you're like I can't believe somebody paid me to make that video I can't believe I was saying those things yeah, and that's just that's part of it, you know Yeah, so going forward Trying to speed up those aha moments with people who follow me is a promise that I'm trying to Keep with my content I'm fascinated with the travel. I love experiencing new things like I said authentic expression But then also just teaching people how to be good creators How to be good travelers because I've done both of those things poorly before and I just want people to Be off better than when I was their age It always comes back to that. I just want to like help young Craig and through that selfish act Helping others yeah, and I think to also inspire people to be good people just because there's a lot of shitty people Yes, there's a lot of shitty youtubers. Yes. There's a lot of manipulators manipulators and That's not the world we want to live in we want to live in a world where like you treat other people with respect You care about other people you treat people the same no matter what they look like or how many subscribers they have And those are the kind of values that get lost with With certain people I feel some guilt. Yeah, I went to Tokyo and Shot my Tokyo super vlog the same week that Logan Paul went. Was it really? Yeah the same week Yeah, it was that long ago. You shot that video. Yeah, I remember seeing it. It was yep. I thought it was a couple months So probably one of my most successful pieces of content ever For a week I traveled it was spoiled by the Japanese government and I just had one goal and that was to create a dope video ended up being 40 minutes long and honestly it's pretty similar So most of the other travel vlogs have done but just because of that Jake Paul or Logan Paul I don't want to mess those up Logan Paul fiasco that video got a huge bump in trending and a lot more people saw then should have Oh, is that why it took off? Yeah, that's pretty cool though. I mean It's pretty cool that that people were able to see that because it was I mean half the comments were I'm glad you're not him But I mean this is it's kind of interesting though that the fact that those happen at the same time it just shows you and Maybe you kind of exposed who I was talking about But like There is a difference in the kind of content you create and if you're not actually If you're just focused on views and shocking and just saying something because it's like it's outrageous Then eventually that's gonna bite you in the ass. Oh, yeah, it all comes back around Sometimes it takes some time for people to realize that but yeah Was it Logan Paul? Or whoever one of these Pauls but you didn't I you were the first person that that informed me on it was on your podcast people can go back and listen to that episode We did together You were saying something something Paul and I was like and there's a brief pause and you're like oh You know who that is and then but now I know now I know who he is They both are I kind of know who they are I saw a couple of rap videos they made Yeah, good and bad to compare ourselves, but I I have found myself trying to Not travel like that and A lot of the I've been okay, so I don't know if you know drift mag coffee magazine and then Serial which is like a travel magazine fascinating with the idea of how to travel well and I think coffee is a Wonderful like you go like food travel is food and I think that's one of the best ways to Authentically start to talk to the people and care about the things and not use a country in the people Because I feel like when people travel they just want to go to the place where they saw that cool Instagram photo that got a couple thousand likes and then replicate that because they saw that success and then move on And I feel like that's using a country that's like not traveling. That's not caring RIP Anthony Bourdain dude like fuck If that yeah, that hit affect me. Yeah, because I mean I think he's an inspiration for filmmakers Travelers people interested in food like all those things and he was the dude that did it Talk about authentic like no bullshit. He would tell it like it is and Yeah, I mean it's it's tough because like But he's left behind an amazing legacy and like if anybody is looking to find Them selves or looking that are interested in travel or food like He's a guy that can open you up to how you should be interacting with other cultures and in the world around you Yeah, I really looked up to him and I'm glad that it's kind of opening up that dialogue a bit more about celebrity and Suicide prevention and just like talking about depression, but Yeah, yeah authentic Expression traveling well and just Respecting people especially when you're in another country Yeah, man. What a textbook example of how to not act in a country What here. Oh, yeah It's about as bad as I guess, but I mean he paid for it You know Yeah, I think he's learned some kind of lesson He's such it better. He's a total me head isn't he? I just love looking at the cameras Isn't me head yeah. He's he's a I mean it's cool. I have plenty of friends from high school that are bros That I'll hang out with them and have a beer and they're you know I enjoy hanging out with them Maybe they shouldn't have such a big following Hey, I've never met the guy. I've only seen the thumbnail of that YouTube video You know, I haven't really dug into the content of who his character is so I'm judging him from a you know a quick Come find yeah, yeah, I haven't I haven't seen I decide the rap videos. I haven't seen much Okay, so talk about social media. Let's do it. I took a photo of you and posted on Twitter I got 20 notifications. Oh, boy. Let's see what people are saying. It caps off at 20 doesn't it? It sure does On they could be I think infinite. Yeah, sometimes it's just like a blast Let's see How do you like your coffee? The coffee's good. I I'm trying to be mindful of like sipping sounds. I know what it's like you don't do any like audio editing So it's it is what it is. I don't want to put that into your podcast That's gonna do a little bit of what do you mean audio adding like cutting things out. Yeah, like if there's a All right, yeah, I don't think that actually didn't make any sound I just bash my nose on the microphone for people who don't understand what I just did What's your favorite fiction book? This is Carl. Oh, yeah, uh speaker for the dead is one that stands out like I've read all the Classics I heard fiction wait fiction is like make believe right. Yes, it's okay. I wanted to fix that Yeah, I'm a sci-fi guy. I'm fascinated with what people think the future is going to look like because it says a lot about how we act and think right now It's like the reverse art But Speaker for the dead like talks about aliens and what it would be like to actually try to communicate for the first time with aliens And it's it's in the Orson Scott card and there's series So you if you read or watch that movie it kind of progresses along that and AI like helping the main character is like this little jewel in his ear that like helps him with everything But no one helps is fascinating to me Yeah, I'm a nerd like that, but I just I'm fascinated with what the future is going to be like I love fiction books because it really it definitely pulls you out and like in a way it gets you to like Not be so focused on escape escape. Yeah, exactly like you can actually be in the moment and enjoy a good book and it allows you to use your imagination There's good and bad escapes though. You know, I think there is yeah You're completely right phone games bad escape Bad escape when your eyes are like feel like they're melting when you're done with it bad escape But reading on the set. Okay, so it goes back to the subway like I see people playing games. I'm like, oh I don't want to be like that, but I hear I am reading a book or listening to a podcast Kind of escape to escape from reality, but better. Well, I think there is like a Like junk food, right? I mean if you were eating like like sushi like really good sushi on the subway Versus somebody who's like tearing into a big Mac I think there's a difference in how you feel a week two weeks after or however long after There's definitely a difference Somebody You're he said Craig once said that his job is in links. Is it still? Yeah links links are I'm not making that much compared to once once you do links for long enough You start to realize where the real money is and that's like Amazon I would love like they're making a lot more money than the people posting and selling things as third party sellers on Amazon And then at the bottom of the barrel are the influencers trying to get people to buy those things So like links are cool, but I'm guaranteed I guarantee you in I years time You're probably not going to see them like I I'm definitely going to get away from them and it's not going to be a part of my content For sure why don't you like the links now just because it's This is affiliate links. We're talking about yeah, there's a difference between Convincing people to buy something based on the content they watch and then there's also the healthy links I think which is here are the tools I use to create the things I'm creating and if you want to be like me by these things But even that is like pushing things as the solution to being me like the tools are a part of it But I still feel like it's a cop out so that's been one thing that I've backtracked a little bit like by this camera And you'll make beautiful films like in terms of the money if you sold If somebody bought a thousand dollar camera from a link that you went to how much do you make from that? So on Amazon it's 4% in the camera category. Yeah, to backtrack categories Amazon allows you to sign up for a program Where you create links to items and depending on the category of the item you make a commission for to 10% off of whatever people buy through that click Right, yeah, I mean, this is one of those things where I do I probably sold a lot of J crew t-shirts Like because so what would it be what t-shirt or whatever? I'll tell you what t-shirt it is Part of me is like it'd be cool to just like because if you gave them in a fillet link instead I would make money from that I don't think I feel ethically that's a bad thing you have to let people know when it's in a fillet link or not legally And I think ethically you should as well. I think that's a gray area, though. Yeah, it's weird And I think in the future people are going to start to realize how much Affiliate marketing is saturated in everything I don't think people make a purchase without being yeah, you know everything is influenced by something So like me seeing this mug right here has influenced my mind to thinking that black coffee mugs are kind of cool Maybe I should buy that should you get half a cent for this right for that recommendation this analog click Yeah, it is a gray area. We live in a gray world. That's depressing I was just scared that we were both going to show up in black shirts, but you're wearing the dark gray area Yeah, mine is a mine's a charcoal. Yes, so that's good We did open up with this, but I want to throw a specific Thing that you can point to Josh Baines says has there been a point where you thought you went too far with minimalism So was there a time or a thing or a moment where you're like maybe I'm overthinking this I like the idea that you can get rid of things and then rebuy it if you feel like it's a mistake Sometimes it's the better process to get rid of it all and then to get what get back But what you actually want instead of the opposite direction of having everything and then slowly getting rid of it things So I have gotten rid of microphones and then re-bought them My computer speakers that I don't have right now. I bought sold bought sold bought and now I've sold So it's a third time I've had these exact same speakers and I've definitely lost money through this used sale That may be going too far as like buying things for the environment. I don't know, but it's just bad when you It's just bad because I post Publicly about everything so like people hate on it. It's like Craig didn't you have that before But even that is like that should just hit me and bounce off like I shouldn't care So well, I know I do the same thing where sometimes I don't see that as taking minimalism too far. I just see that as like part of the process as like And knowing it actually makes you stress out less about the things you're buying so I like it always sell it I could always get it I could always you know buy it again if I want it down the road and I do that from time to time And especially you know as filmmakers we have lots of gear and there's certain things that we Maybe think we need now eventually we decided we don't need it and then two years down the road Actually, you know what that tripod was pretty cool or that man photo, you know, stand was pretty sweet. So It's always a process. Yeah Let's see here more questions But is there is there a time when I'm just like sitting in a white room by myself with nothing? No Yeah, it's lame. It's a lame way to live. It's no color in that life. No offense, but that's lame. We can judge people What percentage of your uploads are purely from monetary reasons versus uploads that you genuinely want it to do? Can you solely do passion projects 100% at the time? That's from Destin he's an aspiring pirate. Yeah, we all want to be rich, but it's just not possible. We all want we like we were just talking about this We're not where we want to be it's good to have goals because it focuses where we're heading in the direction But right now. Yeah, I'm still uploading content that I think are going to get clicks or extend my reach I upload content because I think it'll make me more money than others In the future, I'd like to get away from that, but yeah, I've posted the last four videos about the A7 Mark 3 and I'm so like over it Like I almost want to issue an apology because I feel guilty to my subscribers because I'm just trying to make some money right now Have they done well? Yeah, yeah way better than usual, and that's just the way things are, but yeah, you get to play the game a little bit Man short term for song term like if you just keep doing the content you want to be doing You'll get there eventually. Yeah. This is a great podcast We talked about minimalism minimalism minimalism minimalism social media I got I went there a little bit. I went to like the weird frequency Craig that's like talking about the meaning of life a little bit But you pulled me back. I thought good about it. I feel like we we touched enough of it. Yeah That yeah, and it didn't just slip through our fingers and we didn't make a mess. Yeah, and I think This was a good podcast right to the edge of the free will question and then Because that would have been the end of it. We ran away. We got to the edge of it like now I fuck this Can't do this right now Thanks for doing this fun. Thank you. Yeah. This is amazing. Do you have any final words? No, no, I would just love to say that like people need to reach out and like give feedback on the podcast I don't know how much feedback you get but podcasts are difficult because they can't really They just they have to use something else to get a hold of you. You know what I thought about doing voicemails voicemails is a cool right now What do you mean voicemails people leave you voicemails and then you pick the best two or three and then you play him at the end of the podcast and people like Listen to the whole podcast episode to see if they made it into voicemails. I like Q and A. I like that. That's cool Maybe I'll start doing that but you do you do that on Google voice? It's just like what you did with Instagram I think that would work well if you have a certain place where you could get Videos of people asking questions. Oh, bam just give it to him. I like do it. Do whatever you want But that's no, I don't think that's cool. Yeah, I might have to do that Where should we send people where do they go to find you on the internet? Craig Adams.com That's it. You can find everything from there. I think everyone should have had one single place That's all anybody should do because you can find me on social media at this test. I get this and you know, but and it's like maybe just do a website That's it Craig Adams.com simple Soon to be Craig dot Adams. Oh, I'm gonna cut that out. That's just gonna confuse people All right man. Thanks for doing the show And that's the podcast for this week. Thank you so much for listening if you want to find out more about this podcast You can go to groundupshow.com Where you could also check out the YouTube channel lots of videos excerpts and clips from this podcast over there That's youtube.com slash Matthew Diavella All right. Thanks for listening. Thanks for watching. See you next week
