# A Very Simple Christmas
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVXwFgJioVc
http://www.patreon.com/mattdavella
☝Get all my unlisted videos & support this channel.

Special thanks to Nat, my mom & Jason.

You can find Jason's channel here:  https://www.youtube.com/wanderingaimfully

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** minimalism, christmas, gift giving, presents, simple living, holiday, holiday shopping, shopping, gifts, minimalism and money, minimalism documentary, minimalism decluttering, declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalist, simplicity, 
**Date:** 2018-12-24

## Transcript
 Hey guys, and welcome to our very special Christmas video. We're going to be answering your most commonly asked questions on Christmas the holidays gift-giving and giving completely unsolicited and Unqualified advice as per normal. That's that's mostly going to be coming from you though All right, so neither of us have had eggnog before, so let's start out by pouring a couple glasses Do you want this? This is like the the hipster version now. It's almond eggnog almond nog Does that actually count as like official? Yeah Oh Is that too much? I don't know. Let's just yeah, okay. I totally definitely put way too much. Sorry nog sorry. Sorry nog sorry Since it's the holidays And just spend time with family during the holidays. It's only right to get a little bit drunk This is not missing well Cheers merry holiday It's really good. You should try and whiskey Alrighty and question number one. Do you have any advice for gift-giving around the holidays? What kind of gifts do minimalists give? Well, not and I this year we actually decided to do something a little bit differently We decided not to give each other gifts instead What do you mean not giving gift? We did decide not to give each other gifts this year. I would say primarily out of laziness Yes, that's apparently out of laziness because I'm unshaped as I don't think that was it Because we're gonna be in you can't eat the cooking the whole time with you I think you can give physical gifts like if you are a minimalist or if you're gifting somebody that's a minimalist if you know what they want Maybe ask them But of course, I think like gifting experiences gifting massage vouchers There's a lot of different things that you could give that aren't All concert tickets whatever like I think it just requires being more thoughtful Then just going into a store and just grabbing something up the shelf question Do minimalists have Christmas trees and decorations? Harmony Christmas is about nostalgia and I think he can be a minimalist and still enjoy the nostalgia Of Christmas. We don't have a Christmas tree just because we're gonna be in Sydney So we just seem like a lot of work for not being here. Yeah, maybe next year maybe Next year. Yeah, yeah Question what are your favorite traditions around the holidays? And I'm curious do Okay, this is Cheese miss Christmas change tell me about it Every Christmas my family ate a lot of cheese cheese Cheese mess try it. I'll try it my favorite tradition are holiday cookies my mom used to make the most the most bangin cookies bomb cookies and that this year I decided Since we spent every other year between New Jersey and Sydney I wanted the recipe to myself so I call my mom Hey mom you're gonna be on my YouTube channel All right check this shit out my mom just sent her sugar cookie recipe shit is going down I Can you let people know why they should subscribe to my patreon account? I think there'd be a good to hear from my mom to get exclusive material on support mat Go to patreon.com slash Matty of all you got you almost forgot my name Yeah, that's perfect. You did great No, you got it. Thanks mom love you. Bye Question when is the last time you went shopping on black Friday. Oh I plan for you to have that question Really yeah, I went shopping at this black Friday. I What three weeks ago. Yeah, yeah, yeah, fantastic. I got a rumble All right, can we tell I love rumble you've got black Friday shopping twice over the past three years both times You got back in cleaners. I was back in clean a kind of gal. Yeah, but I guess the the idea is and the reason why I even brought this question in is because like like I'm not anti-consumption anti-bying I think we do need to be more cautious about the purchases that we make and that was something you obviously Not that you're minimalist, but like something that you were planning on getting anyway Yeah, I love rumble. I'm very if you need a rumble would highly recommend Robo vacuum cleaners are the future. It's honest. Oh my god. It's actually amazing Yeah, if you have the money for it and you hate vacuum cleaning it's pretty awesome Hey, it's a question What do you do with gifts you don't want how do you avoid offending the gift give up give them a gift. They don't want it Oh, that's That's really good Next re-gift the same thing they gave to you the next year. Yes, actually I gave this to you for your wedding this model No, this is this exact one. This is actually a gift that Jason's up our friend got me This is like truly a generous and thoughtful gift But the problem Is that I already have one of these So I just reached out to Jason and asked him if he would be okay with me giving it away and he was he was totally fine with it I don't need this, so I was just gonna re-gift it I feel like if somebody's gonna be if you get offended the fact that you gave something away that they gave you It's something that you're probably gonna have to let go of yourself. You have to let go of this idea that you can please everybody That you have to hold on to everything that people give you like if somebody gives you an engagement ring Do you have to keep it? Yeah What I wanted to do was Give this away to somebody in the comments, but I'm not gonna be gifting this to you I want you to gift this gift to somebody that you care about so in the comments Just let me know somebody who's maybe really into coffee who may you be able to use an awesome kettle like this And they're alive something that will give value to them and then I'll pick somebody at random and I will send it out in the new year So that's something to look forward to So thank you guys so much for watching. I hope you have we hope you have an amazing holiday Christmas Hanukkah whatever it is you're celebrating this time of year. Thank you for sharing it with us Bye Can I get one more quick thing from you so I had my mom try to do a patreon pitch and she just did a really terrible job at it So you are actually somebody who is on my patreon is a patreon member So maybe sometimes it's easier if other people talk good about you and brag about you And for me to just keep brag about myself Great thanks Jason your check is in the mail Appreciate Thanks dude. I hope you have a great holiday man. I don't probably want to talk to you until then so enjoy the Later brother
